                       ---------------------------------
                        Bard Guide for Final Fantasy XI
                                  version 1.0
                       ---------------------------------
                              by Gary Tong, 2004
                                Joras on Fenrir
                           Email: joras32@yahoo.com
                                     ----

Table of Contents:

01 - Introduction
02 - Races
03 - Bard Quest
04 - Subjobs
05 - Bard Abilities
06 - Working a Bard
07 - Songs
08 - Equipment
09 - Advanced Tips
10 - FAQ
11 - Thanks

Version History:

1.0 - Initial Version

-------------------
01 - Introduction
-------------------

Welcome to my bard guide.  This guide is intended to be a starting reference.  
Most of the information here is experienced first-hand, although a substantial 
part was gleaned from message boards, web sites, and talking with other bards.  
As such, don't hold statements made in this FAQ as gospel, but merely a 
starting point for your exploration into Vana'diel.

So, where to begin?  The bard class is for the hyperactive.  Once you come 
into your full power, you will _never_ be resting.  There's always something 
to do.  In any given battle you'll probably end up singing between 4-8 songs 
with the odd spell thrown in there every once in a while.  The class also 
involves a lot of running.

The reward for all this work is ease of grouping and fast leveling.  Bard is 
also one of the cheaper classes, as songs are pretty cheap and you aren't very 
equipment-dependent.

-------------------
02 - Races
-------------------

Bards mostly rely on Charisma to land their sleep songs.  Other than that, 
they're not extremely stat dependent.  I would probably rank the races in the 
following order:

Tarutaru:
These little buggers have good charisma, and plenty of MP.  As most bards go 
with WHM sub, the MP helps with cures and spells and such.  Since bards almost 
never get hit, the low HP doesn't really matter.  Plus, you get to /panic

Hume:
Same charisma as Tarutaru, and decent MP.  This is my personal choice, since 
humes can do decently well as any class.

Mithra/Elvaan:
These two races are about the same as far as bard-ness goes.  Elvaan get about 
12 more charisma at level 75, and Mithra get about 30 more MP.  At the lower 
levels the MP makes a difference, but once you start doing BCNMs or HNMs where 
successfully sleeping a monster makes the difference between life and death, 
Elvaan starts edging out Mithra.

Galka:
Not much to say here.  Galkans have low MP and low charisma.  They make super 
special bards.

-------------------
03 - Bard Quest
-------------------

This quest involves no fighting at all, and will actually make you about four 
or five thousand gil.  The quest starts in the Merry Minstrel Meadhouse (I-8) 
in Lower Jeuno.  First talk to Mertaire, then Bki Tbujhja, then Tuh 
Almobankha.  They will tell you about a song rune in Buburimu Peninsula.  Now 
go outside to the Auction House and buy a "Parchment" from the Leathercrafting 
materials section.  I would recommend setting your HP in Jeuno.  Hop on a 
chocobo in Port Jeuno and be prepared for a long ride.

Make your way to Buburimu (Sauromugue Champaign -> Meriphataud Mountains -> 
Tahrongi Canyon -> Buburimu Peninsula).  Head to the Khoonta Dunes at G-9.  If 
you're on foot, watch for Bogeys.  Once you hit the shore, head west along the 
water through the cave.  Once you're out, go NW for a short while to the Song 
Rune at F-9.  Dismount and trade the Parchment to the runes for a cutscene.

Head back to Jeuno.  Fastest way is probably to run to Windurst, change to a 
level 1 class, and suicide back to Jeuno, but whatever.  Once there, talk to 
Mertaire for another cutscene and some gil.  Talk to Bki Tbujhja (damn her 
parents) to get information on another song rune in Valkurm Dunes.  Hop 
another chocobo in Upper Jeuno and off you go.

In the Valkurm Dunes, head N-W towards the secret beach at B-7.  Once you're 
through the tunnel, stick to the left hand wall and you'll find the rune 
easily.  Click on the song rune for another cutscene, some more gil, and the 
bard flag. Congratulations, you're now a bard!

-------------------
04 - Subjobs
-------------------

There aren't many viable bard combinations.  I'm not going to say that certain 
combinations suck (they do), just that they aren't the "best" (because they 
suck).  These include, in no particular order, Paladin, Dark Knight, Warrior, 
Monk, Beast Master, Dragoon, Samurai, and Ranger.  The main problem with all 
these classes is that they are there to do melee damage.  As a bard in a good 
group, you simply won't have time to do much melee.  What with trying to keep 
2 offensive and 4+ defensive songs going, there isn't a huge window to smack 
things around.  Bards also don't get many good weapons. So, without further 
rambling, here are the other subjobs.

White Mage:
Far and away the most popular choice.  Subbing white mage will allow you to 
cure damage, remove status effects, debuff, and cast the bar-ra spells.  
Really, there aren't enough good things I can say about the WHM sub.  An added 
bonus is that starting at level 32, you can start doing the divine seal/curaga 
trick.  Doing this mid-battle usually spells death for the WHM, since he has 
most likely been pumping out Cure & Cure IIs like mad.  However, a bard can 
usually do this to save the party and still not get aggro.  The extra HP and 
better armor on the bard doesn't hurt either.

Red Mage:
This is another good choice.  Like white mage, you get cures and an expanded 
library of debuffs.  You also get fast cast at level 30, which will help you 
get your songs out faster.  Off the top of my head I believe it's reduces the 
8-second cast time of songs to 6 seconds, but I could be wrong.  This helps a 
ton in getting those 6 initial songs out.  I'd put brd/rdm 2nd behind brd/whm.

Black Mage:
Not a great choice.  Black Mages get some decent debuffs, but your low mana 
pool won't really allow you to blast away with spells.  Spell power will be 
slightly lacking as well.  I wouldn't bother.

Summoner:
The main virtue of summoners is their huge mana pool.  The problem here is 
that a summoner sub doesn't get anything to spend their MP on other than half-
leveled avatars.  Nothing else to say.  This subjob sucks.

Ninja:
A good subjob if you're soloing.  At level 20 you get dual wield and at level 
24 you get Utsusemi.  By dual wielding stat+ weapons like small sword or 
decurion's dagger, you get decent attack, further enhanced by songs.  Do not 
think that you'll be a good soloer though.  Bards just aren't built for 
soloing.

Thief:
The only use for this class is treasure hunter and steal.  Past trying to earn 
some gil, there's not much to recommend this sub.  Only use this combination 
if you are farming.

-------------------
05 - Bard Abilities
-------------------

Squenix kinda shafted the bards with their abilities.  Here is the full and 
complete list:

Level   Name            Effect
1       Soul Voice      Doubles the effect of songs (2-hour recharge)
5       Resist Silence  Silence resistance up (passive)
25      Resist Silence  Silence resistance up (passive)
45      Resist Silence  Silence resistance up some more (passive)

And that's it.  Soul Voice is only really useful when you positively 
absolutely need to land a sleep spell.  For things like Paeon or Minuet, it 
simply doubles the effect.  Thus, Paeon III will regen for 6 hp / 3 seconds, 
Ballad will regen for 2 mp, and so on.  Once you cast Soul Voice, you will 
have to re-cast your songs for the added effect.  Usually, I just use this 
whenever I want to.  Unless you're in an area with a lot of aggro, it's not 
worth saving up.

As for the Resist Silences, there is some debate as to whether they even work.  
It's okay though.  We get kick-ass songs.

-------------------
06 - Working a Bard
-------------------

A bard is there to make the party as efficient as possible.  Thus, the #1 
priority is to keep the right songs on the right members of the party at all 
times.  In practice, this becomes quite a bit harder than it sounds.

You can cast a song every 8 seconds (6 with fast cast).  The song actually 
takes effect after 6 seconds (4 with fast cast).  If you move before that, 
your song will most likely be interrupted.  After the song takes effect, you 
can move with no ill effects.  Whether someone receives the effect of the song 
depends on their distance to you.  There is no visual indicator however, so 
you will have to eyeball the distance.  Also, the song's area of effect is 
always centered on you.  Thus, you will have to do a lot of running.

Positioning is important.  This is because each party member can only have two 
song effects at one time.  In the midst of battle, the mages won't want minuet 
and the meleers won't want learned etude.  Ideally, you want your group to be 
positioned like so:

x - MOB      o - Fighters    * - mages   + - you


              oxoo   +    **


This way, when you need to cast madrigal and minuet, you can move up and only 
affect the melee group like this
                
               _______
              /       \
             /         \
            | oxoo+     | **
             \         /
              \       /
               -------

And when you need to cast ballad and etude, you can move back like this

                      _______
                     /       \
                    /         \
              oxoo |     +**   |
                    \         /
                     \       /
                      -------


At the end of the battle, if you want to cast paeon and ballad on everyone, 
switch to a harp (for greater casting range) and move to the middle like so:

                __________
               /          \
              /            \
             /              \
            | oxoo   +    ** |
             \              /
              \            /
               \          /
                ----------

A typical battle goes something like this:
1)  Run to Melee
2)  Sing Madrigal
3)  Sing Minuet
4)  Sing Requiem on the Mob
5)  Cast a bar-ra spell if necessary (and if you're sub WHM)
5)  Run back to Mages
6)  Sing Ballad
7)  Sing a Threnody on the Mob
8)  Sing an Etude for your Mages
9)  Wait for monster to die (and cure, dispel, whatever)
10) Run up and cast Paeon on everyone.
11) Cast ballad on everyone.

At the end of step 8, you will have 2 defensive songs on your fighters, 2 
defensive songs on your mages, 2 offensive songs on the mob.  Probably takes 
about a minute to do.

To make things quite a bit more complicated, there are two types of 
instruments.  Wind instruments, like the flute and cornette, and string 
instruments like the harp.  Wind instruments have a tight range, and string 
instruments have a much larger range.  Thus, if you're playing paeon and 
trying to cover the whole party, you should equip a stringed instrument.  
Likewise, if you're playing minuet, you should probably equip a wind 
instrument.  Thankfully, this can be macro'd.  My macros are set up like such:

Ctrl-1:                                Alt-1:
/ma "Foe Lullaby" <t>                  /ma "Regen" <t>
/equip range "Royal Spearman's Horn"

Ctrl-2:                                Alt-2:
/ma "Foe Requiem" <bt>                 /ma "Valor Minuet" <me>
/equip range "Royal Spearman's Horn"   /equip range "Cornette"

Ctrl-3:                                Alt-3:
/ma "Magic Finale" <bt>                /ma "Sword Madrigal" <me>
                                       /equip range "Traversiere"

Ctrl-4:                                Alt-4:
/sea <t>                               /ma "Mage's Ballad" <me>


Ctrl-5:                                Alt-5:
/ma "Earth Threnody" <bt>              /ma "Learned Etude" <me>
/equip range "Piccolo +1"

Ctrl-6:                                Alt-6: (Changes constantly)
/ma "Fire Threnody" <bt>               /ma "Barfira" <me>
/equip range "Piccolo +1" 

Ctrl-7:                                Alt-7: (Changes)
/ma "Lightning Threnody" <bt>
/equip range "Piccolo +1"

Ctrl-8:                                Alt-8: (Changes)
/ma "Water Threnody" <bt>
/equip range "Piccolo +1"

Ctrl-9:                                Alt-9:
/ma "Ice Threnody" <bt>                /equip range "Royal Spearman's Horn"
/equip range "Piccolo +1"                

Ctrl-0:                                Alt-0:
/ma "Wind Threnody" <bt>               /equip range "Maple Harp"
/equip range "Piccolo +1"

This is all done from memory, so pardon a possible mistake somewhere in there.  
The reason why the /equip commands are after you start casting is because 
switching instruments doesn't interrupt casting, and the instrument used to 
cast the spell is actually determined 8 seconds after you start casting.  This 
way, I can have the horn equipped, start casting ballad with Alt-4, and then 
press Alt-0 to equip the harp so that when my ballad takes effect, it covers 
the whole group.  For the higher-level songs, just put II and III after the 
name of the spell within the quotes.  So when you are using Mage's Ballad II, 
the macro becomes /ma "Mage's Ballad II" <me>

-------------------
07 - Songs
-------------------

I'll update this with spells costs eventually.  Also, keep in mind that by no 
means should you have every single spell.  It's a good idea to keep Minuet, 
Madrigal, Paeon, Ballad, and Lullabies updated though.  Magic Finale is very 
important.  You only really need Spirited Etude and Learned Etude.  Also you 
can scrape by with Wind, Ice & Thunder threnodies, but I highly recommend 
getting them all.


Min Lvl  Spell Name          Effect
1        Knight's Minne      Party defense up
 Guy by chocobo stables in South San d'oria (I-11) sells this up to Minne III
3        Valor Minuet        Party attack up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Minuet III
5        Army's Paeon        Party HP Regen (1 hp / 3 sec)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Paeon IV
7        Foe Requiem         Enemy damage over time (1 dmg / 3 sec)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Requiem IV
9        Herb Pastoral       Party poison resistance up
 Drugstore in Windurst Woods (I-8)
10       Light Threnody      Enemy light resistance down
 One of the merchants in Southern San d'Oria (can't remember which one)
11       Sword Madrigal      Party accuracy up
 Phoenix Perch Inn in Northern San d'Oria (F-8)
12       Dark Threnody       Enemy dark resistance down
 Bastok Markets definitely.  General Goods I think (E-11)
13       Sheepfoe Mambo      Party evasion up
 Dohdjuma in Selbina, along with Rye Flour and Selbina Milk
14       Earth Threnody      Enemy earth resistance down
 Windurst Waters Catalyst Shop (H-9)
15       Army's Paeon II     Party HP Regen (2 hp / 3 sec)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Paeon IV
16       Foe Lullaby         Puts the targeted enemy to sleep
 Dropped by Yagudo Piper in Giddeus
16       Water Threnody      Enemy water resistance down
 M&P's Market in Upper Jeuno (G-6)
17       Foe Requiem II      Enemy damage over time (not sure how much)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Requiem IV
18       Wind Threnody       Enemy wind resistance down
 M&P's Market in Upper Jeuno (G-6)
19       Scop's Operetta     Party silence resistance up
 Valeriano (Traveling minstrel troupe in 1st ranked city)
20       Fire Threnody       Enemy fire resistance down
 Windurst Waters Catalyst Shop (H-9)
21       Knight's Minne II   Party defense up
 Guy by chocobo stables in South San d'oria (I-11) sells this up to Minne III
22       Ice Threnody        Enemy ice resistance down
 Bastok Markets definitely.  General Goods I think (E-11)
22       Enchanting Etude    Party charisma up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
23       Valor Minuet III    Party attack up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Minuet III
24       Lightning Threnody  Enemy lightning resistance down
 Southern San d'Oria somewhere
24       Spirited Etude      Party mind up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
25       Mage's Ballad       Party MP Regen (1 mp / 3 sec)
 The 2nd grouping quest in San d'Oria.  Go to Watchtower to get it.
26       Learned Etude       Party intelligence up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
27       Horde Lullaby       Puts all enemies in range to sleep
 Dropped by Yagudo Drummer in Castle Oztorja
28       Quick Etude         Party agility up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
29       Advancing March     Party attack rate up (sounds better than it is)
 Valeriano (Traveling minstrel troupe in 1st ranked city)
30       Vivacious Etude     Party vitality up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
31       Hunter's Prelude    Single target ranged accuracy up
 Nchaa's Good Goods in Windurst Woods (H-13)
32       Dextrous Etude      Party dexterity up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
33       Fowl Aubade         Party sleep resistance up
 Valeriano (Traveling minstrel troupe in 1st ranked city)
33       Magic Finale        Removes a random effect from target
 Dropped by Yagudo Drummer in Castle Oztorja
34       Sinewy Etude        Party strength up
 Port Jeuno's duty-free shop, also in Windurst Woods, not sure where though
35       Army's Paeon III    Party HP regen (3 hp / 3 sec)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Paeon IV
36       Light Carol         Party light resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
37       Foe Requiem III     Enemy damage over time (not sure how much)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Requiem IV
38       Earth Carol         Party earth resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
39       Battlefield Elegy   Enemy attack rate down
 Helbort's Blades in South San d'Oria
40       Water Carol         Party water resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
41       Knight's Minne III  Party defense up
 Guy by chocobo stables in South San d'oria (I-11) sells this up to Minne III
42       Wind Carol          Party wind resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
43       Valor Minuet III    Party attack up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Minuet III
44       Fire Carol          Party fire resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
45       Army's Paeon IV     Party HP regen (4 hp / 3 sec)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Paeon IV
46       Ice Carol           Party ice resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
47       Foe Requiem IV      Enemy damage over time (not sure how much)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8) sells this up to Requiem IV
48       Lightning Carol     Party lightning resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
49       Goblin Gavotte      Party blind resistance up
 Goblin shop in Jeuno (Muckvix's Junk or something like that)
50       Dark Carol          Party dark resistance up
 Merry Minstrel Meadhouse in Lower Jeuno
51       Blade Madrigal      Party accuracy up
 Dropped by Yagudo Lutenist (lvl ~46) in Castle Oztroja or Zvahl Castle
53       Dragonfoe Mambo     Party Evasion up
 Dropped by Yagudo Lutenist (lvl ~46) in Castle Oztroja or Zvahl Castle 
54       Gold Capriccio      Party petrification resistance up
 Dropped by Yagudo Chanter (lvl ~55) in Castle Oztroja or Zvahl Castle
55       Mage's Ballad II    Party MP regen (2 mp / 2 sec)
 Treasure Coffer in Castle Zvahl Baileys.  Key drops off Demons ~lvl 65
56       Shining Fantasia    Party dark resistance up
 Dropped by Yagudo Conductor (lvl ~65) in Castle Oztroja
57       Foe Requiem V       Enemy damage over time (not sure how much)
 Dropped by Yagudo Chanter (lvl ~55) in Castle Oztroja or Zvahl Castle
59       Carnage Elegy       Enemy attack rate down
 Dropped by Yagudo Chanter (lvl ~55) in Castle Oztroja or Zvahl Castle
60       Victory March       Party attack rate up
 Dropped by Yagudo Conductor (lvl ~65) in Castle Oztroja
61       Knight's Minne IV   Guess
 Yag. Conductor in Castle Oztroja or Costal Sahagin in Sea Serp. Grotto
62       Bewitching Etude    Party charisma up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8)
63       Valor Minuet IV     Party attack up
 Yag. Conductor in Castle Oztroja or Costal Sahagin in Sea Serp. Grotto
64       Logical Etude       Party mind up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8)
66       Sage Etude          Party intelligence up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8)
67       Foe Requiem VI      Enemy damage over time (blah)
 Yag. Conductor in Castle Oztroja or Costal Sahagin in Sea Serp. Grotto
68       Swift Etude         Party agility up
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8)
69       Puppet's Operetta   Party calm resistance up
 Valeriano (Traveling minstrel troupe in 1st ranked city)
70       Vital Etude         Party vitality up (Squenix ran out of words)
 Harmodios's Music Shop in Bastok Markets (L-8)
71       Archer's Prelude    Single target ranged accuracy up
71       Goddess's Hymnus    Party reraise
72       Uncanny Etude       Party dexterity up
73       Warding Round       Party curse resistance up
73       Chocobo Mazurka     Party movement speed up
 I hear the guy by chocobo stables in South San d'oria (I-11) sells this
74       Herculean Etude     Party strength up
75       Maiden's Virelai    Single target charm (oh yeah!)

-------------------
08 - Equipment
-------------------

I'll update this more later, but here's a list of useful instruments and what 
they do

Instrument         Min lvl      Effect
Flute                    1      Nothing
Flute +1                 1      Requiem +1
Maple Harp               1      Nothing
Maple Harp +1            1      Minne +1
Cornette                 4      Minuet +1
Cornette +1              4      Minuet +2
Piccolo                  9      Threnody +1
Piccolo +1               9      Threnody +2
Harp                    14      Minne +1
Harp +1                 14      Minne +2
Mary's Horn             14      Lullaby +1 (Dropped by Stray Mary in Konascht)
Royal Spearman's Horn   20      March +1 Charisma +3 (San d'Oria Rank 2 Item)
Traversiere             32      Madrigal +1
Traversiere +1          32      Madrigal +2

-------------------
09 - Advanced Tips
-------------------

1. Start singing offensive songs before the puller returns to your group.  If 
you time it right, the song will take effect right after the puller gets in 
range.

2. Likewise, start singing paeon before the mob dies.  The paeon should come 
out exactly when the battle ends.  This way, the puller can immediately pull 
the next one instead of waiting around to get paeon.

3. Sing Mage's Ballad and an Etude during downtime before the battle starts.  
This way the mages are still covered with ballad even if you fub a few 
offensive songs and need to re-sing them.

4. If you get good with range, it is possible to hit only the tank with Minne.  
Most of the time this is just way too much hassle to do, but if you have a co-
operative group that understands positioning well, this is possible.

5. Likewise, if your mages stand far enough apart, you can usually hit one 
with spirited etude and the other with learned.  Again, this is usually not 
worth the effort.

6. If you have fast-cast, it's worth stacking say, Paeon I and Paeon II on 
your tanks during downtime.  Otherwise, it just takes too long to set up.  
Paladins and Dark Knights will usually want Paeon and Ballad though.

7. Keep an eye on the battle.  Threnodies wear off pretty quickly sometimes, 
and Magic Finale is one of the most useful spells you have.

-------------------
10 - FAQ
-------------------

Q: Can you stack two songs of the same type?
A: Yes, but only if their names are difference.  So you can stack Paeon I and 
Paeon II for 3 hp / 3 sec, but not Paeon I and Paeon I.

Q: Is there any use for more than 1 bard in a group?
A: Yes!  With 1 bard each person in the group can have 2 songs.  With 2 bards, 
each person in the group can have 4 songs!  As long as you don't try to play 
the same songs, they will all stack.  One day I really want to see what 6 
high-lvl bards can do.  Especially running Soul Voice.

-------------------
11 - Thanks
-------------------

People in my life who don't quite understand my devotion to these games, but 
put up with it.
Gamefaqs for hosting this.
Special thanks to FF Monster Tour for most of the information on where to get 
many of the songs.
Allakhazam, FFXIOnline, Warcry, and Killing Ifrit for all their work.
My linkshell on Fenrir, Solemnity, for being a great bunch of people.
All my friends on Fenrir.  If I tried I list you all I'd probably piss someone 
off by leaving out their name, so you know who you are.
Anyone who feels like donating gil to me on Fenrir. :-D


Copyright

This guide is copyright (C)2004 by Gary Tong.  All trademarks and copyrights 
contained in this document are owned by their respective trademark and 
copyright holders.  No sites are allowed to host this guide without my 
permission.  Nor is anyone allowed to publish, copy, or otherwise reproduce 
this work without my consent.  If you would like to host this guide on your 
site, email me at joras32@yahoo.com  The only site with permission to host 
this guide is:
 http://www.gamefaqs.com
