                        Final Fantasy V - Game Script
                            Apathetic Aardvark
                               3/30/2004

The game starts with a view of the marvelous castle of Tycoon.  As it scrolls 
down a dragon is seen on the balcony of the castle.  A man walks out towards 
it, and it makes a dragon roar, followed shortly by a younger woman walking 
outside as well.

Lenna: Father! Do you really have to go?

King [of Tycoon]: Lenna, you need to protect the castle.  You mustn't follow 
me. 

Lenna: But.

King: Something about the wind bothers me.  I must go check the crystal of the 
wind shrine.

Lenna: Yes. I can feel it, too.  But, by yourself?

King: Don't worry.

The King saddles on top of the dragon and flies away from the castle towards 
the wind shrine.  Lenna waves goodbye.  The scene shifts to a pirates ship 
somewhere out at sea.  The
ship is captained by Faris.  It is evident the wind stops blowing.

Faris: The wind, stopped.

Inside of what appears to be a cave of some sort, a bearded ole chap named 
Galuf stands in front of some sort of portal.

Galuf: The wind stopped!!  I've got to hurry!!

The scene goes back to Tycoon Castle, Lenna remains on the balcony.

Lenna: The wind!! Has something happened. to Father!?

The scene shifts to inside of the wind shrine, King Tycoon sees the Wind 
Crystal.

King Tycoon: What!?

Darkness fills the room, the crystal shatters.  The screen goes totally white 
and comes back in a forest where a young boy, Butz and his Chocobo sit near a 
campfire.  From up above a meteor suddenly comes crashing down to the 
surface.  Butz jumps on Boco, his chocobo and hey run off onto the world map.  
They rush to the meteor which fell, near Tycoon.  Butz jumps off of Boco as 
they enter.

Butz: Boco, wait here.

Butz walks a ways and seems some goblins carrying off a young girl.  He rushes 
towards them and gets attacked.  He helps her up.

Butz: Are you okay?

Lenna: Y.. yes.  Thank you very much for helping me.  I'm Lenna.  And you?

Butz: I'm Butz [or whatever name you select].  Journeying with a chocobo to 
nowhere in particular.

Lenna: Butz.

She looks over at the meteor.

Lenna: This thing suddenly came falling from the sky. the blast sent me 
flying, and I fell unconscious.

Butz: Is it a meteor?

Lenna: A meteor?  Might it have something to do with the wind stopping?  Thank 
you so much.  I wish I could repay you, but I must hurry.

She begins to run off.

Butz: Hey, wait a sec.  

Lenna: Did you hear something?

Butz: Huh?

*ugh* *unnh*  Voice: Help.

Butz: It's coming from over there!

They both run to the right side of the meteor to see a man on the ground 
there, it is Galuf.

Lenna: Are you all right?

Old Man: Where am I?  Ooh. my head.  What. what's with me?  I can't remember. 
I can't remember a thing!!

Butz: You hit your head. is it amnesia?

Old Man: Ah!  That's right, my name's Galuf!

Lenna: Anything else?

Galuf: No. I can't remember anything besides my name.

Lenna: I'm really very sorry, but I have to hurry.

Butz: Where're you going?

Lenna: The Wind Shrine.

Galuf: The Wind Shrine!!  I have a feeling that's where I needed to go too!  
I'll go with you!

Lenna: But.

Galuf: I MUST go.  Please take me with you!!

Lenna: Butz. What about you?

Butz: I'll continue my journey.

Lenna: Butz. Thank you so much!  Goodbye.

Galuf: Farewell!

Galuf and Lenna leave the meteor crash site.  Butz walks back to Boco.

Butz: Boco, let's go!

They leave the crash site as well and head northwest some, 
suddenly Boco stops and Butz flies off.

Butz: Ouch. Boco!  Don't stop so suddenly!  Why are you giving me that look!?

Boco: Wark!  Wark, wark!

Butz: I know. It's an old man and a girl. And there are lots of Goblins around 
here.  Got it, Boco.

The ground begins to shake and collapse.  

Lenna: Eeeeek!

Galuf: Aaggh!

Butz: Boco, let's hurry!!

Boco: Wark!!

Butz hops on Boco and they ride north getting attacked by Goblins along the 
way.  Boco hops over a few holes in the ground as well.  They pick up Lenna 
and Galuf and escape from immediate danger.

Lenna: Unhh.

Butz: Hey!

Lenna: Butz!!  Thank you so very much.

Butz: Aw, stop that.  The meteor's shock's collapsed cliffs and made the 
ground split.  And now, the road to Tule's been blocked.

Lenna: But I have to get to the Wind Shrine

Galuf: Ugh. unnh.  To the Wind Shrine. got to hurry. to the Wind Shrine.

Butz: This old geezer too.  You know what?  I'm going to go with you.

Lenna: What?  Really!!

Butz: My dad. He said for me to travel the world and see things.  And besides. 
the wind is calling.

Galuf: Yeah, yeah, say whatever you want! Really you just want to be with 
her!! 

Butz: Hey, you were awake!!

Galuf: Of course I was!  But the road has been blocked. What will we do?

Butz: ...

Lenna: But we must go!

Galuf: Yeah.

Butz: Well, then!  Let's go!!

All three hop on Boco and head north to a cave.  They all hop off.

Lenna: A cave in such a place. 

Butz: It must have been formed by that earthquake.  Boco, it's dangerous 
ahead.  You've got to stay back here.

Boco: Wark!

Butz, Lenna and Galuf enter the cave.  They walk forward a bit and Butz spots 
a spring.

Butz: That spring!

The spring is just a recovery spring, though Butz will become very happy if 
you walk into it.  Further along in the cave the party will see a Pirate pull 
a secret switch which reveals a door.  The pirate goes through the door.

Butz: That button?

Butz can pull the button and enter the area the pirate ran off into.  He'll 
see another opening.

Butz: What's that?

Butz will enter this room and see a ship float in.

Butz: That ship?  How does it sail without wind?

Butz and the party will enter the room the ship docked in.  They will hide 
behind some pillars as the pirates patrol around the room.

Butz: This must be the pirates' hideout. so that ship we saw was a pirate ship?

Lenna: I wonder if we couldn't get a ride?

Butz: Uhh. these are PIRATES we're talking about here.

Galuf: Well, then we haven't but to sneak the ship ourselves!

Butz: Hey old man, you're more daring than I thought!

Galuf laughs.  They sneak onto the ship and take control of the wheel.

Butz: We're off!!

Galuf: Butz.  What's wrong?

Butz: It's no use.  It won't move at all.  What's going on here??

Voice: And just what do you think you're doing!?

Faris and the pirate gang walk up and trap Butz, Lenna and Galuf on the ship.

Faris: How bold you are!  Just going to sneak in here and steal my ship, eh?

Lenna: I am Tycoon's princess Lenna.  I apologize for trying to just take your 
ship like that.

Butz: Tycoon's...

Galuf: ...princess!?

Lenna: Please!  Please lend us your ship!  I must get to the Wind Shrine!  My 
father is in danger!

Faris: *Laughs* Eh!  You're Tycoon's princess!  This one's gonna be worth a 
lot!

Butz: Stop!!

Lenna: I beg you!!

Lenna displays a pendant.

Faris: That pendant.  Keep them locked up!

Pirates: Yes, Cap'n!!

The pirate crew locks up Butz, Galuf and Lenna.

Galuf: This is great.  Who the heck said we should steal this boat, anyways?

Butz: Hey there old man, I think it was YOU!

Galuf: Ooo. my head hurts!  I can't remember.

Butz: What a convenient excuse.

Butz: But that sure was a shock. that Lenna was the princess of Tycoon.

Lenna: I'm sorry. I wasn't intending to hide it.

Butz: But why were you going to the Wind Shrine by yourself?

Lenna: Because my father is there.  And when the wind stopped. I thought 
something bad had happened.  So I snuck out of the castle alone. and then, 
that meteor came falling from the sky.

The screen darkens, night has arrived, the focus shifts over to Faris's cabin.

Faris: Why would the princess of Tycoon have the same pendant as me?  She said 
her father is at the Wind Shrine.

Morning has approached and the pirates are joined by Faris on the main deck.

Faris: We're heading for the Wind Shrine!

Pirates: Captain, what should we do with these people?

Faris: Untie their ropes!  Hurry up!!

Lenna: Why?

Faris: I'm saying that I'm going to lend you my help.  Isn't that good 
enough?  We're off!  To the Wind Shrine!

Pirates: ...

Faris: Are you guys going to listen to me?  Answer me!

Pirates: A... ay-ay, sir!

The pirates all go to their positions on the ship, Lenna walks up next to 
Faris.

Lenna: But, with the wind stopped. how will the ship move?

Faris: You really wanna know!? Syldra!  Why don't you introduce yourself?

In front of the ship a giant serpent head emerges from the water.  It is 
leashed to the ship and is able to pull it around.

Faris: How about that!  Syldra and I grew up together.  We're basically 
brothers!  We're off!

As the ship goes north, a pirate will approach Faris.

Pirate: Would you like to navigate until we get to the Wind Shrine?  

If yes is chosen, the party will go to the Wind Shrine, if no is chosen you 
may navigate to a town and see some additional events.  The town is Tule.  
Enter it.

Pirates: Beer, beer!!

Faris: I'm going too.

If you enter any store, Faris will jump in while you are in it.

Faris: Don't forget me!

Faris: Well, see ya later!

In the middle of town, Lenna will pop out of the party.

Lenna: This is Zokk's house.

Butz: Someone you know?

Lenna: Yes.  He's the man who built the gate to the Torna Canal.  It doesn't 
look like he's home right now.

Butz: Well, let's try back later.

In the lower floor of the bar, Butz can have some dancers dance for him, this 
will clear the way to a piano.  He may play it to improve his skills.  
Upstairs in this building Faris is sleeping.  If you walk to the door of that 
room, a conversation will begin.

Butz: Hold on, I'll go take a look.

Butz sees Faris laying in bed, he falls in love.

Galuf: Butz!  Is something wrong?

Butz: No. noting at all. Maybe I'm just going crazy?

Galuf: Hmm. get out of the way!

Galuf walks into the room and the same thing happens to him.

Galuf: Beautiful.  Makes my heart throb!

Lenna: What are you two babbling about?	

Fairs gets out of bed.

Faris: Ahhh. Hmmm. I slept well.  What are you guys doing?  Snap out of it!  
Sorry, but I'd like to be left alone for a while. See you later.

Faris walks back into the room and locks the door.  As you leave town, 
everyone will join up with you.

Faris: Hey!  Were you trying to leave me here!?

Now the party can head to the Wind Shrine.  They walk in to it and see a group 
of people pacing around.

Man: Princess Lenna!

Lenna: What in the world is going on?

Man: The wind suddenly stopped, and monsters came rushing into the Shrine!

Lenna: What about Father!?

Man: King Tycoon has gone up to the top floor. but he hasn't come back.

Man 2: Something must have happened!

Faris: The Crystal Room is on the top floor!  Let's go!!

Lenna: Faris. Thanks!

They walk up the floors of the tower, eventually being halted by a giant 
bird.  It pushes them all back against a wall.

Butz: Stand guard!!

They walk up higher, into the crystal room.  Shards of the once large crystal 
are scattered all along the floor.

Lenna: The Crystal!

Butz: It's shattered!!

The shards flash a few times.

Butz: Huh?

The scene shifts to another intact crystal at another point on the planet.  it 
sends out a small charge.

The Spirit of Fire Courage

Another crystal does the same.

The Spirit of Water Kindness

A third crystal does too.

The Spirit of Earth Hope

The shattered Wind Crystal does as well.

The Spirit of Wind Pursuit

Butz: What...

Faris: ...in the world?

Galuf: It feels warm.

Lenna: The Crystals' Spirits?

Voice: Le... Lenna.

King Tycoons image phases in where the crystal once was.

Lenna: Father!!

Faris: !?

King Tycoon: Listen well.  You are the chosen warriors. The four who hold the 
spirits.

Lenna: Father!  What do you mean?

King Tycoon: The Wind Crystal has shattered.  And it seems as though the other 
three Crystals will as well.  You must protect them!  An evil spirit is about 
to return.  One that will plunge all into darkness.

King Tycoon vanishes.

Lenna: Father!!

King Tycoon: Go!  Chosen warriors. Protect the Crystals.

Lenna: Father!!!

The six crystal shards move near the party and flash.

Lenna: What are these?

Butz: Pieces of the Crystal?

They move in very close.

The Crystal Pieces
These hold the powers 
of ancient heroes
that dwell within.

Knight, Black Belt, Blue Mage, Thief, Black Mage, White Mage

Butz: Pieces of Crystal. They're lending us their power?

Galuf: Let's talk later.  We need to get out of here.

Faris: Lenna.

Lenna: If I remember correctly, there should be a warp gate to outside behind 
the altar.

After the party leaves via the warp gate, a chocobo will appear on your screen 
asking "How to use the Pieces of Crystal.  Would you like an explanation of 
the Job/ability System"  If you choose yes it will go about showing you how to 
set up you characters and explaining what jobs do.  Since this is rather 
unrelated to the story I'm not going to type it up.

The party returns to the town of Tule, or goes there for the first time, in 
which most of the previous dialogue happens again.  They will enter Zokk's 
House.  He happens to be home now.

Zokk: Princess Lenna!

Lenna: Zokk!

Zokk: It's nice to see you again.

Lenna: Zokk. I have a favor to ask of you.  We need to pass through the Torna 
Canal in order to get to Worus.

Zokk: But, now that the Wind Crystal is gone, that place is infested with 
monsters!  It's too dangerous.  And besides. I've lost the key to the Canal.  
Anyways, Princess Lenna, pleas stay at my house for the night.  Come right 
this way.

Butz, Lenna and Galuf sleep in the guest room.  Butz wakes up and walks out 
into the main room and exits the house.  

Butz: The Crystals. Dad used to talk about those, now that I think about it.

The scene flashes back to Butz's childhood.  Butz is in bed and his parents 
are talking at the table.

Butz's Dad: The Crystals must be protected.  If anything should happen to me, 
don't tell Butz about the Crystals.  I. I don't want to burden him with this.

Butz's Mom: ...

The scene comes back to the present, Butz walks back inside of Zokk's house. 
Zokk is next to Lenna in the gust room.

Lenna [sleep talking]: .  Father. I'll protect the Crystals.

Zokk exits the room and walks up to Butz.

Zokk: Is anything wrong?

Butz: No. I was just thinking about my late mom and dad.

Zokk: Please, take this!

Butz: What is it?

Zokk: It's the key to the Canal.  With this, you can open the gate and get to 
Worus.  I've been hiding my worries about Princess Lenna.  Please keep her 
safe!

Dawn arrives and the party wakes up.  They walk to the entrances of town.  
Faris exits the pub.

Pirates: Captain!  Wait up!!

Faris: I'm going to leave you here!

Pirates: Captain!  Why!?  We'll go with you!!

Faris: I'm sorry, you can't.

Pirates: But Captain!!

Faris: It looks like it's going to be a long journey. Be sure to protect the 
hideout while I'm gone.  Okay, guys?

Pirates: Captain!.

Faris: Please.

Pirate: Captain.  A. ay-ay, sir!  

Lenna, Butz, and Galuf leave town.  The last pirate rushes out of the pub.

Pirate: Take good care of yourself, Captain!

They all wave goodbye.  The party enters the ship, Lenna is on the top deck 
looking blankly at the water.

Butz: Lenna, what's wrong?

Lenna: The Wind Crystal has shattered.  Now, the wind's power is only 
weakening.  But before long, the wind will have stopped completely.  And after 
a few years, the sky will not stir; the birds will lose their place to fly.  
Father said to protect the other three crystals.

Butz: Three Crystals?

Lenna: The Crystals of Water, Fire, and Earth.

Butz: But what if they shatter?

Lenna: For a while, nothing will happen, but.  Slowly the Earth will rot. the 
Water will stagnate, cease to flow.  The power of Fire will be gone and 
everything will be frozen in coldness.  It will become a world in which man 
cannot live.

Galuf: We're going to protect the Crystals!

Butz: Oh, your memory's returned?

Galuf: Nope.  But I'm going to protect them anyways!

Faris: I'll go too!  We have to search for Lenna's Father!

Butz: You mean the King of Tycoon who disappeared into that shadow?

Faris: I know he's alive.  Lenna's father wouldn't just die!

Lenna: Butz. Will you come with us?

Butz: I was only a wanderer. But when I look at these.

Lenna: The Pieces of the Crystal.

Butz: They're lending us their power so we can protect the entire world. and 
the spirit of the wind. . . . Let's go!  To protect the Crystals!

Galuf: Alright, we're on our way!  The party heads towards the Torna Canal by 
boat.  When they reach a closed dam, Butz walks up to it and uses the Key to 
unlock the canal door.

Galuf: Butz!  Where'd you get the key to the Canal?

Butz: Wherever, why does it matter?  Come on, let's go!

After a while of sailing, a whirlpool inside of the water starts up!

Butz: What is THAT?

Lenna: It couldn't be. The monster that was sealed in the Canal.

Faris: I'm losing control!!

Galuf: We're being sucked in!

The ship is pulled in and spins around until it reaches the middle of the 
whirlpool.  Syldra lets out some screams.

Faris: Syldra, what is it!?

Butz: Stand guard!! Something's coming!!

After an attack, the boat breaks free, but Syldra gets stuck inside of the 
whirlpool.

Faris: Syldra!  

Butz: It's still alive!! It's trying to take Syldra with it!

Faris: Syldra!  Let go!  Let go of me!!!  Syldraaaa!!!

Syldra is swallowed up by the whirlpool.  It is now night time on the boat, 
which is no moving.

Butz: How's Faris?

Galuf: I think we should just leave Faris alone for a while.

Butz: This ship. It's being cast away. isn't it?

Lenna: Faris. I'm sure Syldra's alive.

The boat is slowly pushed at the whims of the sea.  Eventually it crashes up 
against some other materials at sea.

Butz: Where are we?

Faris: The Ship Graveyard.

Lenna: A home of undead monsters, made by the remains of drifting ships that 
gathered.

Galuf: Well, whatever, let's get out of this place!!

As they walk through the ships in the graveyard, they come into one which has 
a flooded room.

Faris: Do you really want to go through here?  We'll all get wet.

Butz: What are you saying?  Let's go!

A while later they enter a non-flooded room which has some beds in it.

Butz: Man, I'm soaked.

Lenna: This place seems safe.  Let's take a rest.  I have to go dry my 
clothes. Don't peek!

Lenna exits into a side room, Butz starts a fire in a barrel.

Butz: C'mon, let's dry out clothes!

Faris remains away from the fire.

Faris: I'm just fine. really.

Galuf: How can you say that?  You'll catch a cold!

Galuf and Butz grab Faris and try to remove Faris's clothing.

Faris: Stop that! Hey, I said stop!!

Lenna hears the commotion and runs out as Faris fends off both Butz and Galuf.

Lenna: What's goin on?

Butz: Lenna. Fa. Faris is.

Galuf: A girl!!

Faris: What's wrong with that!?

Lenna: But, why?

Faris: I was found by the pirates when I was little, and they raised me.

Butz: And you pretended to be a man?

Faris: A female pirate would just get laughed at.

Galuf: Hmph.  I knew you were too beautiful to be a man!

Faris: Hey, just remember that my being a female doesn't make me any less 
important!  I'm just as good as you guys!

Butz: Yeah.

Faris: Well, get over it.  Time for bed!

Faris hops into a bed and everyone else dos as well.  Sleepy time!

Faris: Aaaah, slept well. Alright, let's get going!!

Everyone else gets up, but Galuf falls flat on his face.

Faris: What're you doing?  Let's go!!

Galuf: I still think Faris seems like a man.

Butz: Who cares?  Faris is Faris!

Lenna: Yeah!

After a long walk they will arrive on the beaches.  Suddenly the sky gets dark.

Butz: I've got a bad feeling about this.

Butz's mother, Stella, appears out of no where.

Stella: Butz. Come here, honey.

Butz: Mom.

He walks towards her, suddenly King Tycoon appears as well.

King Tycoon: Come here.

Lenna: Father!

Lenna walks up to him.  Faris trails.

Faris: Lenna!?  uhhn.

They both walk up to him.  Cara, Galuf's granddaughter appears as well.

Girl [Cara]: Grandpa. Come over here.

Galuf: Who are you?  I can't remember.

Butz, Lenna, and Faris lose consciousness.  They souls are removed from them 
as a Siren appears.

Siren: Let me take your souls. Join us!

Galuf: Who the heck are you!?

Siren: Hrmph. Why won't my spell work on you?  I am Siren.  I have taken the 
souls of these three.  If you don't try to hinder me, I'll let you go.

Galuf: Sorry, but I can't do that! 

Siren: Why do you protect these three?

Galuf: Because they're. They're my friends!  Don't be fooled by her!  Open 
your eyes!

Galuf runs over to Butz, Faris and Lenna and slaps them all.  Their souls 
return and the illusionary relatives vanish.

Butz: Galuf!  Stand guard!!

Butz: Galuf!  You saved our lives!!

Galuf: Don't sweat it.  

Butz: Don't be embarrassed!

Galuf: I'm not!!

In the town of Carwen a helpful lady will explain some things about the world.

Lady: The country of Worus lies to the south of this town, across the sea.  
They're using the power of the water Crystal.

Lenna: We've got to stop them!  But how can we get to Worus?

Lady: Boats used to travel there, but since the wind has weakened.

Galuf: And we don't have Syldra anymore either.  Faris. I'm sorry.

Lenna: Butz, don't you know of any good way to get there?

Butz: If there's no wind, we can't go by sea.  And if we can't go by sea. we 
must go by.

Inside of the town pub is another man who has valuable information to the 
story.

Man: I really saw it. I saw a dragon go flying towards the North Mountain!!

Lenna: What kind of dragon!? 

Man: It almost looked like it was wearing armor.

Lenna: My fathers Hiryuu is on the North Mountain?.

Faris: What's wrong, Lenna?

Lenna: There is a plant on the North Mountain, called the "Hiryuu Plant", 
Nothing other than it can heal a Hiryuu's wounds. Perhaps Hiryuu is injured?

Galuf: And if we can't go by sea.

Butz: We'll go by air!!

Lenna: We could get to Worus if we had the Hiryuu.

Galuf: Nice plan. To the North Mountain!!

Near the top of the North Mountain, Lenna will spot a familiar relic.

Lenna: Father's helmet!

She will pick it up, only to be struck by an arrow of poison, which knocks her 
down.

Butz: Lenna!

Part of the cliff will separate to prevent Butz from reaching her.

Magisa: Hehehe. We came chasing after the Hiryuu, but that's some tough game!

Butz: The Hiryuu?  

Magisa: A Hiryuu's horn can fetch a pretty good price, heheheh!  And look, 
it's the prince of Tycoon!  She'll make a nice gift to take back to my 
husband.  Heehee!

Faris: Stop!!

Faris jumps over the hole only to get stuck on the ledge as another part of 
the mountain collapses.  She falls.

Butz: Faris!

Magisa: She fell! Heehee. *looks down*  Huh!?

Faris climbs back up the ledge and makes a rope bridge to the other side.  
Butz and Galuf cross it as well.

Butz: Lenna!  

Magisa: Crap, I guess I'll just have to take out all four of you!

After the battle.

Lenna: Thanks!

They walk a bit farther and see Hiryuu wounded on the top of the mountain. 

Lenna: Hiryuu!

Faris: What an awful wound.

Lenna: Hiryuu. Here you go, I'll fix you up.

Lenna grabs the poisonous flowers.

Faris: Lenna!  What do you think you're doing!?

Lenna: I'm alright.  Stay back!  If I can treat it with the Hiryuu Plant.

She grabs Hiryuu plant and gets poisoned more.

Lenna [To Faris]: Hurry. Give this to the Hiryuu.

Lenna falls and Faris feed the Hiryuu the plant.

Lenna: Get better Hir-.

The Hiryuu is healed and makes a roar!

Galuf: That was truly a rash thing to do.

The Hiryuu lifts off and lands next to Lenna, it heals her!

Lenna: Hiryuu. thank you!

Galuf: It's alright! Come on, Let's go!!

Butz: I... I'm kind of afraid of heights.  *everyone else laughs*  Hey, what's 
so funny!?

Galuf: Oh, just get on!

Galuf throws Butz onto Hiryuu and it lifts the entire party into the skies!  
Landing at the Castle of Worus, the party will make their way to the throne 
room to speak with the king.

King Worus: Why, if it isn't Princess Lenna!

Lenna: King Worus!  It's been a long time.  Please!  Please stop amplifying 
the power of the Water Crystal immediately!

King Worus: (chuckle).  You must be kidding. We can't do that!  Thanks to the 
Crystal, we can all live in wealth and abundance!

Lenna: But if you continue, the Crystal will shatter!

King Worus: Hmm. I've heard about the Wind Crystal.  But, we can't be sure 
that the same will happen to the Water Crystal.  And the people would be 
against it.

Butz: We're in no situation to be taking chances!

The entire screen begins to shake and turns red.

Butz: What was that!?

Down from the heavens comes another meteor, crashing very near a tower which 
holds the Water Crystal of Worus.  A soldier rushes into the throne room.

Solider: You highness!  A meteor has fallen near the Tower!

King Worus: What!?  Quickly!  Gather the soldiers!! Head for the Tower!  

Soldier: Yes sir!

King: I'm sorry, but this is very urgent business.  Princess  Lenna, let us 
discuss this again at a later time.  Let's go!!

Everyone exits the room and heads to the tower.  The guards are knocked down, 
a few floors later the king is and urges you to stop Galura whom went up the 
stairs, and protect the Crystal.  They will eventually reach the top and find 
a Worus Warrior attempting to hold off Galura.

Warrior: Galura is being controlled!  We can't let him break the Crystal!!

Galura slugs the Warrior out of the way.

Butz: Stand guard!!

Once Galura is defeated, the party will rush to the Crystal.  It flashes white 
just before they get there.

Lenna: The Crystal!!

It shatters and leaves behind six shards.

Lenna: We were too late.

Warrior: Unnh.

The Warrior gets up and falls down at the entrance to the Crystal Room.

Warrior: Unnh. Sir Galuf!!!

Galuf: You know who I am?

Warrior: Sir Galuf.  I wasn’t able to protect the crystal. I'm sorry. 

Galuf: Tell me!  Who am I!?

Warrior: Protect the. Fire Crystal. Unnh.

The shards of the Crystal begin to flash.

Faris: The shards of the Crystal.

Butz: Are they lending us their power?

The spirits of heroes that rest in the Pieces of the Crystal: Berserker, Red 
Mage, Summoner, Mystic Knight, Time Mage.  As the last piece is gained the 
room begins to shake!

Butz: What's happening?

Faris: The tower's sinking?

The entire area where the tower once stood sinks, the party is suddenly under 
the water!

Butz: Grrrrrrrrrr!!

Syldra comes from no where!

Faris: Syldra!

Syldra roars and picks everyone up by putting them in his mouth.

Faris: Syldra!  You're alive!!

Syldra drops the party off on a beach, where all by Faris faint for a moment.

Faris: Syldra!

Lenna: Syldra. You used the last of your power to rescue us.

Faris: Syldraaa!  Don't die!!

Syldra drifts away in the current.  Faris tries to give chase, but Lenna holds 
her back.

Lenna: Syldra. Thank you.

Faris: Syl... dra.

Nearby is the meteor which hit the ground earlier.  The party enters it.  In 
the center of the room is a warp gate.  Butz will accidentally fall in it and 
be warped away.

Lenna: Butz!

Galuf: Was he warped?

Lenna: Let's follow him!

Lenna jumps in, followed by Faris, they are both warped.

Galuf: This place. I recognize it. And that solider in the Tower knew me, 
too.  Who the heck am I?

Galuf finally jumps in the warp gate.  Everyone appears in a similar looking 
meteor somewhere else on the planet.  After a long journey west, in the town 
of Karnak, the party will be arrested if they attempt to do much of anything.

Guard: It's them! 

Butz: ???

Guard: You must be here with the monsters!  I saw you come out of the meteor!!

The party gets put into prison, a strange old man is in the cell next to 
yours.  After a while he blows up the wall between the cells!

Galuf: Now what do we do?

Butz: !?

Cid: I used the last of my special gunpowder. to find out the other side of 
the wall was just another cell?  *laughs* Hey you!  You just laughed, didn't 
you? *party nods no*  Oh never mind. I'm Cid.

Lenna: Cid?  The one who built the machines to amplify the Crystal's power.

Cid: ...

Lenna: I'm sorry.

Cid: No, it's alright.  All of this is my fault.  According to a book I found 
at the Ancient Library, long ago the Crystals had power much greater than they 
do now.  I studied the Crystals in Tycoon, Worus, and Karnak and built 
machines to amplify their power.  But, this was a terrible mistake. When a 
Crystal's power is amplified, the Crystal will shatter, it's all my fault.

Butz: But why are you in jail?

Cid: It was too late for me to save the Crystals of Tycoon and Worus.  so I 
knew I had to prevent at least Karnak's Crystal from shattering.  But they 
caught me when I tried to stop the machine.

Butz: So you have the same goal as we do.  You're trying to protect the 
Crystals too?  These asked us to!  

Butz holds out the shards.

Cid: What!?  The Crystal pieces!!  Who in the world are you guys!?

Minister: Dr. Cid!!  Dr. Cid!!

The Minister unlocks the prison cell.

Cid: What's the matter?

Minister: What you said was right!! A crack has formed in the Crystal!

Cid: What !?

Minister: We stopped the machine at once, but the Crystal's power continued to 
grow.  

Cid: The Steamship.

Minister: Huh?

Cid: The Steamship is probably sucking up the Crystal's power.

Minister: Dr. Cid, please lend us your help!

Cid: These people are going to help us!

Minister: Huh!? But these people came out of the meteor; they're with the 
werewolves!

Cid: Well then, I won't help either!

Minister: I..., fine then.

Cid: Will you help us?  I'll go to the steamship first.  It's dangerous 
there.  Come once you're totally prepared.  I'll be waiting!

Cid and the Minister exit.  The party will try to exit the castle, but there 
is some commotion outside.

Soldier: It's a werewolf!  We can't let him get in the castle!!

They kick its ass quickly with some dynamite.

Soldier: Dr. Cid's explosives will chase him off for now, but it's a matter of 
time until he comes back.

Butz and the crew enter the Steamship.

Cid: I've been waiting for you!  As I thought, this ship is sucking away at 
the power of the Crystal of Fire.

Butz: The engine is?

Cid: Yes.  If the engine isn't stopped immediately, the Crystal will shatter.  
Will you go!?

Butz nods and follows Cid.

Cid: You can enter from here. but be careful!  Monsters have gotten inside.  
Please stop the engine.

The party will eventually make their way into the engine room of the steam 
ship, which seems to be overworking itself.  Queen Karnak is standing in front 
of it.

Lenna: Queen Karnak!!

Butz: What!?

The room grows dark, the Queen becomes partially enveloped in a shadow circle.

Queen Karnak: You people are standing in the way of my revival!  I must get 
rid of you!!

The reactor starts on fire, the fires attack the party.  Once beaten, the 
reactor explodes and the Queen comes crashing down at the party's feet.

Butz: Queen Karnak!

Queen Karnak: I was being controlled by something. An evil spirit. A being who 
seeks darkness.

Butz: Queen!

Queen Karnak: It isn't just the machines fault the Crystals are shattering.  
The evil spirit is using them, trying to bring about his resurrection.  
Please.  Please protect the Crystal of Fire.  You should be able to get to the 
Crystal Room through that pipe.

Through the large pipe they go and emerge into the room housing the Fire 
Crystal.

Lenna: The Crystal!

[at this point Lonewolf will enter the room.  There are two scenarios of what 
will happen here.  If you unlocked him from prison in Worus Castle, he will 
enter much later and save everyone at the last possible instant, and die 
himself.  If you did not unlock him, the better set of events [IMO] will 
occur, they are listed below.]

Wolf: Yes!  It's safe!!  Galuf!?  

Butz: A werewolf!!

Wolf: I'm not your enemy!

Butz: Huh!?

Wolf: Galuf!  What's wrong with you!?

Galuf: You know me!?  Uhhn.  I don't remember. Who AM I?

A man enters the room from the top left, hits a switch and the room begins to 
shake, he's powering the Crystal!

Wolf: What are you doing?  If you do such a thing, the Crystal will shatter!!

The man disappears into a circle.

Man: That's three. Just one more will dissolve the seal. Fwa, ha, ha.

He vanishes completely.  The room shakes more, Butz walks up to the switch.

Butz: It's no use, the lever's broken!  It won't go back!

The pipes connect to the Crystal from both sides.  Wolf tries to block one 
from the front of the room by standing in front of him.

Wolf: Galuf!  While I'm holding this, get out of here!  There's only one left. 
You've got to protect the Earth Crystal!!

The room begins to start on fire, the pipe pushes Wolf closer to the Crystal.

Wolf: C'mon, go!  When the Crystal explodes, this room'll be a hellhouse!  
Escape from this castle quickly!  And protect the Earth Crystal!!

Butz: Werewolf!

Lenna: Let's save him!!

They try to get to the wolf, but fires in the room block them and the floor 
collapses taking them down a level.

Wolf: Galuf. Go!

The Crystal shatters, the room burns to a crisp and Wolf along with it.  The 
party lands a level below, which also has some fires in it, but they burn out.

Faris: The flames are disappearing.

Butz: Is the power of the Crystal dissipating?

They run back into the crystal room.  There are shards of the crystal all 
around the chamber.

Lenna: The Crystal... has shattered.

Galuf: What about the Werewolf?

Butz: He was probably... swallowed in the flames.

Lenna: We have to hurry!  The Fire Crystal's power is what supported this 
castle!

Butz: The Crystal shattered. the castle will explode!?

Lenna: Yes!! There isn't much time!

They make haste out of the Fire Crystal Chamber.  Just after getting out of 
the castle, it will explode.  From a safe distance the party watches, a few 
shards of Crystal will fall at their feet.

Butz: The pieces of the Crystal.

Lenna: They're lending us their power?

The spirits of heroes that rest in the Pieces of the Crystal; Mediator, 
Geomancer, Ninja.  The party will head back to the steam ship to consult with 
Cid.

Cid: Everything is my fault!! If only I weren't here.

Cid runs off to Karnak Village, which was not destroyed along with the castle.

Butz: Cid!

Lenna: Cid!

Faris: ...

Galuf: It's tough for him.

Cid is on the second flood of the pub getting himself drunk.

Butz: Cid!

Cid: Go away!  If only I'd not built those machines.

Lenna: Cid, it isn't your fault.

Cid: Please, just leave me alone!

The party will venture southwest to the Ancient Library.  Mid, the grandson of 
Cid is stuck somewhere in the underbelly of the library.  In the library is a 
mysterious book, upon being opened.

Ifrit: I am Ifrit.  I have been sealed in this book for many years.  Only 
those whose bodies can withstand my flames may summon me!!

After Ifrit is defeated.

Ifrit: You are strong. I've decided to grant my powers to you.

In another room, an annoying bookshelf tries to impede the progress of the 
party.

Bookshelf: I will not let you through!  I... Ifrit!  Help!!

Needless to say it lets everyone by.  Though I did just say it. hmmm.  Anyway, 
they'll keep wandering around in the library.

Butz: Who's that?

Lenna: Mid?

Galuf: Be careful!  I have a bad feeling about this!

Some books attack the party.  During the battle he likes to talk.

Byblos: Ugh. This is the end. But the seal of my master still lives!!!  

Mid: Hey!  Don't bother me while I'm reading!

Butz: You've been reading that book this whole time!?

Mid: What?  Were you the ones making all that noise back there? 

Butz: !?

Lenna: !?

Galuf: Uh.

Faris: Weird guy.

Mid: Well, I'm gonna go back now.  You all coming with me?  I know a secret 
exit!

Mid removes a book from the shelf he's at which takes everyone to the second 
flood of the library.  

Scholar: Mid!!

Scholar 2: Mid!  You're alright!

Scholar 3: Thank you for rescuing Mid!

Scholar 4: Phew!

Mid: Huh?  You guys came down there to rescue me?  Thank you!  I should 
apologize for not thanking you earlier!  Oh, by the way, everyone! I found a 
great book!  Look. We might be able to get the steamship running if we do 
this.  I have to let Grandpa Cid know about this right away!

Butz: Cid!?

Mid: You know him?  He's my grandpa!  Grandpa is amazing!  No matter how much 
trouble he has, he never gives up!

Faris: But right now, Cid.

Mid: Huh?

Faris: He's about to give up.

Mid: What!?  That can't be!!

Mid runs out of the Ancient Library.

Lenna: Mid!!

Butz runs after him. all the way back in the Pub in Karnak.

Butz: Cid!

Cid: .

Lenna: Did Mid come here!?

Faris: Cid!  Pull yourself together!

Cid: I'm hopeless now. Don't bother yourself with me.

Mid [entering room]: Grandpa!

Cid: Mid! 

Mid starts punching Cid!

Cid: Ow!  Hey, hey, hey, Mid, stop that!

Mid: Grandpa, you idiot!  You idiot!! Nothing can make you give up!

Cid: Mid.

Mid: You're the one who always said not to be afraid of failures.  You're the 
one who always said that if you fail, then you should just try it over again.

Cid: Mid. Mid, should just try it over. Again...  Mid!  You're right!

Mid: Grandpa!! 

Cid: The Earth Crystal is still alive.

Butz: But where is it?

Cid: I have no idea.  But we must find it and protect it!  And in order to do 
that.

Mid: The Steamship!

Cid: We must get the Steamship to move.  But we don't have the Fire Crystal's 
power anymore. 

Mid: Grandpa, take a look at this!

Mid places the book he brought from the Ancient Library on the table.

Cid: This book!?  hmm.     . Ah-ha!  Now, THAT's an idea!  Great work, Mid!  
Let's get to it right away!

Mid: Yeah!!

Cid and Mid leave the room and head to the steamship.  When you meet up with 
them, the thing will just start to shake a bit.

Mid: Hey, you guys stay out of the way for a while, ok?

Cid: Sorry, sorry, Mid's just excited.  Why don't you take a rest until we're 
done with the Steamship?

Butz, Lenna, Galuf and Faris go to the crew cabin.

Butz: Galuf, what's wrong?

Faris: I knew something wasn't right about you. what is it?

Lenna: Are you alright, Galuf?

Galuf: My head.  I think I might remember something.

The scene flashes back to the scene you just had in the pub.

Mid: Grandpa!

Cid: Mid!

It flashes further back, Galuf is on a castle.  A young blonde girl runs out 
towards him.

Cara: Grandpa!

Galuf: Cara!

Back to the pub. when Mid beats on Cid.

Cid: Ow!  Hey, hey, hey, Mid, stop that!

Mid: Grandpa, you idiot!  You idiot!!  Nothing can make you give up!

Back to the castle. Cara is lightly poking at Galuf.

Galuf: Ouch!  Hey hey hey, Cara, stop that!

Cara: Grandpa, you idiot!

Back to the present.

Galuf: Ca... ra.

Butz: Galuf?  What happened!?

Lenna: Were you able to remember anything!?

Galuf: I'm not a person of this world!  I came here in a meteor from another 
world, to prevent the return of an evil.  an evil force that we sealed off in 
this world 30 years ago.

Butz: An evil being that will return?

Galuf: Yes.  The Dark Mage Exdeath!

The scene shifts way in the past, when Galuf is just a young man.  He is 
joined by Lonewolf, King Tycoon and Butz's father.

King Tycoon: It's for sure!  This is where the powers of the 4 Crystals 
gather!  Let's do it, then!  Let's use the power of the Crystals and seal 
Exdeath here!

The view pans to the map which shows where the area is.

Galuf: I had come to this world before in a meteor. 30 years ago.

Lenna: If the 4 Crystals shatter, then Exdeath's seal will be released.

Galuf: That's right. Uhhn.

Butz: Galuf!  

Galuf: I. can't remember anything else clearly. uuhn.  We can't let Exdeath... 
re... turn.

Butz: Galuf!

Galuf: I'm. fine.

The screen goes black, Butz and crew go up to the top of the steamship.  Cid 
and mid are asleep.  Cid gets woken up.

Cid: Aah. slept well!

Cid wakes up Mid.

Mid: Aah. slept well!  Hehe, I'm copying Grandpa!  We're finished!

Cid: A ship that moves without wind!

Butz: We'll search for the Earth Crystal using this boat!

Cid: Yes!  Please do!!  We'll be at the Ancient Library.

Mid: We just might find some clue there somewhere!

Cid and Mid leave the boat and stand on the dock.

Cid: If anything happens, come to the Ancient Library!

Mid: Be careful!!

Butz walks to the steering wheel [I'm sure this has a technical boat name]

Butz: Let's go!!

The next real action takes place in the village of Crescent.  Upon entering 
town it will be nailed with an earthquake!

Man: He... here it comes!  Another earthquake!!  

Butz: What!?  The Ship!!  The ship's sinking!!

Alas, poor Butz can do nothing to save the Steamship and it falls to the 
bottom of the sea.  Luckily, members of this town speak of a chocobo forest 
nearby, so that is where Butz and the crew go next.

Galuf: What is that?

Lenna: A chocobo? 

Faris: But it's a bit different.

Butz: I'll catch it!!

When Butz catches the chocobo.

Chocobo: Wark!!

Butz: Hey this one's a black chocobo!

Lenna: So they weren't extinct!

Butz: Well, let's see if you can fly!  Go!!

The Chocobo lifts off out of the forest, but soon comes crashing down back in 
it.

Chocobo: Wark-!

Galuf: ...

Faris: Huh?  Look!

Faris whacks the chocobo and two Crystal shards come out.

Lenna: Pieces of Crystal?

Faris: These must be the ones that were sent flying the explosion at Karnak.

Butz: So that's why he couldn't fly!

The spirits of heroes that rest in the Pieces of Crystal; Bard, Hunter.

Butz: Eew!  I don't know if I want to touch these.

Galuf: Let's hope it can fly now.

They all hop on the chocobo.  It shakes it booty and lifts off!  Action will 
resume back at the Ancient Library!

Cid: Hey, you're back!

Butz: Cid. The Steamship.

Cid: I see.

Mid: Not a problem!  We can just build another Steamship!

Cid: But listen!  We have found King Tycoon!

Lenna: What!?

Cid: It seems that he was seen in the town of Karnak.  Then it looks like went 
into the Quicksand Desert.

Faris: The Quicksand Desert?

Mid: It's the desert that lies to the west of here.  The sand there flows like 
rivers.

Cid: No one can enter it. Beyond the desert, they say there are the ruins of a 
city.

Butz: How did King Tycoon?

Cid: I don't know.

Mid: The people here who said they saw him said that his body was floating in 
the air.

Butz: Floating!?

Lenna: Father.

Faris: Let's go to the Quicksand Desert!

Galuf: But we won't be able to get through it.

Faris: We'll find a way!

Butz: Let's give it a try!

They will eventually reach the Quicksand Desert.  The sands do in fact flow 
like rivers.

Galuf: (sigh).  This doesn't look good.

Cid: Wait!

Mid: It's too soon to give up!

Cid: You could make a bridge!

Mid: It might be a little dangerous, but it's worth the try!!

Cid: We'll disturb the SandWorm that lives in this desert.

Mid: You guys defeat it.

Cid: Then you can walk across the body of the worm!!

Galuf: How violent!

Cid: Looks who's talking!  Hahahah!!

Mid: Are you ready?  (choose yes)  I read that it would be unwise to use magic 
against the sandworm!  Be careful.

Cid: Here goes!!

The battle with the sand worm occurs.

Mid: You did it!

Cid: Now you can get through!

Butz: Cid and Mid. While we're gone, can you look after the black chocobo that 
we left in the forest?

Cid: Be careful!!

Mid: Be careful!!

South of the Quicksand Desert is the Ruined City.  The party enters it.

Butz: What is this?

Lenna: The ruined city they were talking about?

King Tycoon, or someone who resembles him, pops out from behind a pillar and 
runs off.

Lenna: What's that?

Faris: King Tycoon?

Eventually they are in the same room as the king.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: ... F... ather.

They approach him, but a trap floor sends them below into some sort of dungeon.

Lenna: Faris!

Faris: ...

Lenna: So you WERE my sister.

Faris: I'm sorry.  It was too hard for me to say.

Lenna: Sister!

Faris: Lenna!

Galuf is trapped in a separate room as the other three.

Butz: What is this?

Lenna: What a strange place.

Faris: By the way... Where's Galuf?

Butz: Hey, now that you mention it.

Lenna: Have we been split while we were falling?

Butz: Well, we know that old man. I'm sure we'll meet up with him somewhere.

Galuf overhears that comment and climbs under the floor only to pop up in 
front of Butz!

Galuf: Hey!  What's the big idea?

Butz: S... sorry!

They walk around in this area and soon come to a very mechanical room.

Butz: What's this!?

All four of them are warped out under a good half of the earth.  They re-
emerge under Crescent.

Butz: Watch out!!

They are in a new mechanical room, this one goes all haywire and Butz stumbles 
out of the room.

Meanwhile.  Cid and Mid are flying around on their new chocobo and land near 
Crescent.

Cid: He should be fine if we returned him to this forest.

Mid: Butz. we've fulfilled our promise.

Back to Butz.

Butz: Phew. that was CLOSE.

Galuf: It was probably some teleportation device.

Faris: It probably broke form lying unused for so long.

Butz pulls a switch and the entire earth begins to shake.  In the Chocobo 
forest, the ground on which Cid and Mid stand collapses!  They fall under!  
Butz walks more and they find the Steamship which sunk earlier.

Butz: Where are we?  It's the Steamship!  It had sunk to the bottom of the 
sea.  Then, what the heck is that ship over there?

Butz walks to another ship, it has propellers on its deck.

Butz: Propellers on a ship?  How strange.

Cid and Mid finish falling and land on the ship!

Butz: Cid!! Mid!!

Cid: Ouch.

Mid: Where are we? Butz!  Lenna, Faris, Galuf!!

Butz: What are you guys doing here?

Mid: Well, we took the black chocobo back to Crescent Island.  But then, a 
hole suddenly opened up and we fell in.

Butz: So we're underground. Under Crescent Island?

Butz: So that would explain the Steamship being here.  

Mid: This. is probably a facility built by the ancients.

Butz: What about this ship with propellers?

Mid: I don't know.  Grandpa might know more about it.  Grandpa!?  Where is he?

Mid goes below deck, Butz follows.  Cid is down there.

Cid: This is amazing!!

Butz: Cid!

Cid: We'll talk later!

Cid walks to some machinery.  

Cid: If I do this here.

The entire ship shakes.

Cid: It works!!

Butz: What is it!? 

Cid: We're off!

A panel beneath the ocean opens and the ship, and Airship rises from it.  
Everyone is on the main deck now.

Butz: What is it?

Cid: It must be an airship!  I read about them in an old book once.  I can't 
believe they really exist!

The ship begins to shake.

Butz: What's going on!?

Cid: Something's pulling down on the airship.

Butz: There's a monster down there!!

After the battle with the monster the ship stops shaking.

Cid: Yes!

Butz: We did it!

The ship sets back down in the underground dock.

Cid: It wasn't damaged badly.  We were able to fix it using some parts from 
the Steamship.

Butz: Cid.  

Cid: . I'm tired of hearing thanks!

Mid: We'll try to find out about the location of the Earth Crystal!

Cid: The sky is yours!  Go for it!!

Cid and Mid leave the airship.

Faris: The evil Dark Mage Exdeath.

Lenna: To prevent his revival.

Galuf: We must protect the last Crystal. the Crystal of Earth!

Butz: Let's go!!

In their new airship they fly over the Ancient Ruins.  A powerful force is 
shaking it into non-existence.

Butz: What the!?

Galuf: The town!!

But it isn't being destroyed, whatever it is lifts off into the sky, far 
higher than the airship.  Everyone returns to Cid and Mid for advice.

Butz: Cid, Mid.

Cid: (pant). we know!  

Mid: We saw it through a telescope!

Mid opens up a book.

Mid: The Earth Crystal is inside the flying ruins!  The city was kept afloat 
using the Crystal. They knew the Crystal was about to shatter, so they landed 
the city.

Cid: We must hurry!  Somebody has started up the machine!

Lenna: Father?

Faris: It couldn't be!

Butz: How can we get that high up in the sky?

Cid reveals a book.

Cid: With this!  If we had some of this.

Mid: It's called Adamantium.  If we could use it to strengthen the airship, 
it'd be able to fly higher!

Galuf: I know where we can get some!!!  Remember that meteor I came here in?  
I think I remember seeing some inside of the meteor!

Butz: Really!?

Galuf: You doubt me!?

Butz: But your memory hasn't recovered completely yet, has it?

Galuf: Well, I'm somehow sure about the Adamantium.

Faris: It's worth the try.

Cid: We'll get everything ready here!

Mid: come back with Adamantium as soon as you can!!

They all walk back to the Tycoon Meteor.  Galuf starts reaching around the 
side of the Meteor.

Galuf: I'm sure it was somewhere around here.

He flips a switch and the door opens.

Galuf: it's in here!  [against the back wall]  This is it!  Remarkable memory, 
eh?

Butz: That's not something a person with amnesia should be saying.

Galuf: Hahaha!

The room gets dark.

Butz: Something's wrong!  Look out!!

After the everyone returns to Cid and Mid, yet again.

Cid: You got the Adamantium!

Mid: We'll start right away!  Butz, you guys should go rest in the bedroom.

Cid and Mid work and work to fix up the airship.  Meanwhile, Butz and company 
are sleeping.

Butz: I just had a dream that the airship was already finished.

Cid and Mid enter.

Cid: We're done!!

Butz: Wow!  You guys are fast!!

Mid: Lift off, then press the 'A' button and choose to go 'up'!

Lenna: So we can get to the flying city with this?

Cid: Yes, however. It's not that simple. Look here.

Cid reveals another book.

Cid: The flying city cannot be entered unless all of the cannons have been 
destroyed.

Mid: According to the book, the cannons are very powerful.

Lenna: But we must go!

Faris: Of course!

Galuf: Cannons, no problem!

Butz: Thank you, Cid, Mid.  We've got to hurry to the flying ruins before the 
Crystal shatters!

Butz and crew return to the airship.  

Butz: We're off!!

There is an optional event that you could have done for a while now, we'll 
list it here.  Go to the town of Lix.  Rest in the in.  Overnight Butz will 
wake up and be examining a gravestone.

Faris: Butz. What's wrong?

Butz: Faris.

HERE RESTS STELLA.  The stone reads.

Butz: This is my mother.

Faris: Huh?

Butz: I was born in this village.  My mother died when I was little. after 
that, I left on a long journey with my father.  Then three years ago, my 
father became ill and passed away, too.

DORAGN AND HIS BELOVED WIFE STELLA REST HERE. It reads.

Butz: Dad asked me to bury him with mom.  Dad was a strong man.

Faris: A father.  Is that a nice thing to have, Butz?

Butz: Faris.

Faris: Well, let's go back!  We don't want everyone to worry!

They return to the inn and now wake up.  At this point upon returning to the 
airship it will had into the high skies.  The ship will take off into the high 
skies fighting several battles against the automated defenses of the Floating 
Continent.  Once the last is taken out the scene will shift to the deck of the 
airship.

Butz: That was the last one, right?

Lenna: Wait, what's that!?

The ship begins to shake as some large cannon egresses from the floating 
continent.  

Galuf: It's huge!

Faris: This looks like trouble.

Once the Sol Cannon is defeated they will again talk.

Butz: Is that hole the entrance?

Galuf: It looks like it.

Faris: Let's go!!

They enter the floating continent ruins area.  On the fifth floor of the ruins 
King Tycoon is standing, there is some sort of monster in front of him.

Lenna: Father!

King Tycoon: Grrr. That thing's in my way!

Faris: Father!

King Tycoon: Shut up!!  That monster is the guard of these ruins.  It changes 
its weakpoint. Quickly, defeat it!!

During the battle, ArchaeAvis will revive itself.  King Tycoon watches on.

King Tycoon: Astounding!  What life force!!  The power of the Crystals?

Eventually ArchaeAvis will be defeated.

King Tycoon: Well done!  

The king rushes into the Crystal room.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Father!

Butz: The Crystal.  Is it up ahead?

They enter the room to see King Tycoon directly in front of the Earth Crystal.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Father!

Galuf: It's no use!  Something's controlling him!

King Tycoon makes an aggression against Butz, he and Galuf charge forward but 
are halted by Lenna and Faris.

Lenna: Butz, Stop!

Faris: Don't!

Butz: Move!

King Tycoon: I'll let all four of you rest in peace!

The room begins to shake!  Up from above comes a meteor!  It makes an impact 
with the room.  Cara, Galuf's granddaughter bursts and in smears King Tycoon 
with a spell.  

Cara: Grandpa!  Grandpa, you're okay!

Galuf: You're... Cara!?

Galuf remembers everything, it seems she jump started his memory!

Cara: Grandpa, I missed you!

Lenna and Faris walk over to the knocked down King Tycoon.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Father!

Cara: He's fine.  It was only a weak 'Bolt"!

King Tycoon: Unnh, where am I?  Lenna?  Sarisa?  Is that Sarisa!?  You're... 
Sarisa!  You're alive!!

Faris: Fa... ther...  Father!

The room grows dark, Butz runs towards the Crystal.

Butz: No!

But it is too late, the Crystal shatters leaving shards around the room.  The 
view switches to where the four seals were before, they are all gone!  
Lightning strikes it and something rises from above it and transports into the 
Earth Crystal Room.

Galuf: Exdeath!

Exdeath: Galuf. I've returned!  Fwahahahaha.

Exdeath manipulates the crystals.

Exdeath: Crystal!  become my power!  Help me destroy these fools!!

Butz: Shit!

The Crystals attack Butz.

Butz: Ugh.

Lenna: Butz!  Are you alright!?

Exdeath: The Crystals have shattered!  And next up, Galuf. is your world!!

Exdeath leaves the room, King Tycoon begins to follow.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Father!

King Tycoon: Sarisa, Lenna, and Butz. Warriors of a different Dimension!  
There is still more that you must do.  The world must not be allowed to fall 
into Void.  Light of Earth.  Come to me. Bring back your spirit!

The Crystals attack everyone.  King Tycoon gets up only to absorb another 
attack.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Father!

King Tycoon: Don't follow me!

King Tycoon walks forward and fights the Crystals, he is mortally wounded, but 
the Crystal shards are no longer under Exdeath’s control.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Don't die!!

King: Sarisa. Forgive me. I wasn't able to do anything for you.  Lenna. 
Sarisa.  Unite your power, and Butz.  Please. Protect them.

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Please don't die!!!

King Tycoon dies.  The shards spark up and give their powers to everyone.  The 
spirits of heroes that rest in the Pieces of Crystal; Samurai, Dragoon, 
Dancer, Chemist.  The room begins to shake lightly.

Butz: What's happening!?

Galuf: The ruins are falling!?

Butz: We must escape!  Hurry, to the airship!

They begin to run out, but Lenna won't move.

Faris: Lenna!  Let's go!

Everyone runs out to the airship.  Faris takes control of it.

Faris: Hang on tight!

The Airship makes it out of the Floating Continent, which crashes back on to 
the ground where it once arose from.

Faris: Lenna.

Lenna: Father is, really gone, isn't he.

Butz: Galuf. What's wrong?

Galuf: Cara and I must leave!

Butz: What?

Galuf: My memory has returned!  At least I remember it all.  Exdeath was an 
evil wizard from our world. 30 years ago, he came to this world in an attempt 
to destroy the Crystals.  I, along with three other fighters. As the Four 
Warriors of Dawn.  we borrowed the power of the Crystals to seal him.  30 
years passed, and nothing had happened.  But something went wrong.  Realizing 
this, we boarded meteors and once again came to this world.  But, we were too 
late. He has revived, and has returned to our world. 

Butz: Was it because we used too much of the Crystals' power?

Galuf: We were the ones who sealed Exdeath in this world.  One of us insisted 
that we take him back with us. We should have done as he said.

They return to the meteor Cara came in on.

Butz: Are you going back to your own world?

Galuf: We must seal Exdeath.  Luckily Cara's meteor still works.  It has just 
enough power to be used one last time.  Butz, Lenna, Faris, thanks for all 
your help!  I won't forget you guys!

Butz: Hey, wait!  We'll go with you!!

Galuf: You can't.  The meteor that Cara came in was the last one.  If you come 
with us to the other world, you won't be able to come back!!  Farewell!

Cara: Goodbye!

Cara and Galuf enter the meteor.

Butz: Galuf!  Cara!

The meteor blasts off heading to the other world.  Butz heads the airship near 
the Meteor at Tycoon.  On the deck of the ship the remaining three gather.

Lenna: Butz.

Butz: Huh?

Faris: The two of us have been talking.

Lenna: In the other world, Galuf and the others are battling against Exdeath.

Faris: We must avenge Father!

Lenna: Yeah!  And.

Faris: Galuf is.

Butz: Out friend.

Lenna: Butz!

Faris: Then.

Butz: Let's go!  To the other world!!

Lenna: How will we get to Galuf's world?

Faris: There's not enough energy left in the meteors.

Butz: The meteors. Maybe Cid could find a way!

They enter the Tycoon Meteor now.  Cid and Mid are inside of it.

Butz: Cid!  Mid!  What in the world. 

Cid: Butz, stay away!  It's dangerous!

Mid: The Adamantium started emitting some strange energy.

Cid: So we thought we'd put it back where it came from.  Hold on a minute.

Cid puts the Adamantium in the warp hole.  

Cid: What the!?  The ground is sucking energy away from the Adamantium.

Lenna: Hey!  I wonder. If we used this to restore power to the meteor, 
couldn't we go to Galuf's world?

Butz: Now, THERE's an idea!

Cid: What is this?  *they explain*  I see.

Mid: This piece of Adamantium is too small to restore all the power.  But if 
we used the power of the other 3 meteors as well.

Butz: We could get to Galuf's world!

Cid: Now, onto the next meteor!  

Mid: Let's go!

Cid and Mid hop on their flying chocobo and leave.  They all go to the Meteor 
near Karnak.

Cid: Let's go Mid!

Mid: Let's go!!

Cid: Monsters are in there!

Inside is the Esper Titan.  Once defeated Cid and Mid will boldly run in.

Cid: We owe you one.  *they get the Adamantium* Just leave the rest to us!  
Now, onto the next meteor!

Mid: Let's go!

They hop on their chocobo and head to the Meteor near Worus.

Cid: Wait here!

Mid: Leave it to us!!

Cid: It's finished.

Mid: Come on, let's hurry!

But enemies attack as they are leaving!

Butz: Cid!  Mid!  Look out!!

After the battle.

Cid: Are you alright!?

Mid: Wow, you're strong!!

Cid: Now, onto the next meteor!

Mid: Let's go!

They hop on their chocobo and fly off to the meteor near the Ancient Ruins 
[where the floating continent crashed.]

Cid: Wait here!

Mid: We'll come right back!

After a while Butz becomes annoyed.

Lenna: This is taking WAY too long.

Faris: Something might be wrong!  Let's go!

They enter the meteor, Cid and Mid are being held in some sort of barrier.

Cid: Help!

Mid: Help me!!

The barriers attack Butz.  After they win, Cid and Mid are freed.

Butz: Let's go!

They exit the meteor.

Lenna: You guys all right?

Mid: Yeah!

Cid: That was frightening!!  Now the 4 meteors are all ready.  Take a look at 
this map.

Mid: Please hurry here, the place where the energy from the four meteors is 
gathering!

Cid: Be careful!!

Butz: Thank you, Cid, Mid!!

Butz, Lenna and Faris go to the hole in the Earth caused by all of the power.

Lenna: The light is weakening.

Butz: There's not much of the meteors' energy left!

Faris: Only once.

Butz: It's a one-way ticket.  We might not be able to come back. You guys 
understand?

Lenna: Yes.

Faris: That's okay!

Butz: Let's go, then!!

Lenna: I guess it's goodbye to this world.

Faris: Men, stay well!

Butz: Boco. I'll be going now!

They all jump into the hole and are transported through the sky, through space 
and to Galuf's world. 

Butz: This is.

Lenna: Galuf's world?

The party sadly landed on the most boring part of this world.  There's nothing 
to do.  Eventually they'll use a tent to advance the story.  Lenna and Faris 
will talk near a campfire, Butz naps nearby.

Faris: .  Lenna. There's one thing that's been keeping me wondering.  Why did 
you go through such danger to save the Hiryuu up on the North Mountain?

Lenna:  Sister. do you remember our mother?

Faris: Mother? A little, I guess.

Lenna: Well, I. When I see that Hiryuu, it reminds me of Mother.

Faris: What do you mean?

The fire goes out!  A monster rushes at Lenna and Faris.

Butz: A monster!!

It takes them both!

Butz: Lenna!  Faris!!

Another monster comes and attacks Butz.  Whether or not Butz wins, he will be 
captured as well.  All three wake up in a jail cell.

Butz: Where are we!?

Exdeath: Fwahaha. Welcome to my castle!

Butz: Exdeath!

Monster: Master Exdeath!  Galuf and the others are at the Big Bridge!

Exdeath: I see. Prepare the Great Mirror!

Monster: Yes, sir!

Exdeath: At least you cretins are useful for something!

The monster brings a mirror in and places it in front of the cell.

Lenna: Butz look!  The sky!

Butz!!

Outside, on the big bridge, apparently the cell can be seen.

Cara: Look, Grandpa!

Galuf: Butz! Lenna!  Faris!

Exdeath: Galuf!  You have a decision to make.

Galuf: Shit!!! Everyone, retreat!

Galuf’s army runs away from the bridge.

Exdeath: Gilgamesh!

Gilgamesh: Yes, sir!

Exdeath: Keep an eye on these people!  I'm counting on you.

Butz: Exdeath!  Why you.

Exdeath hits Butz with a fireball.

Butz: Damn it!

Back on the bridge.

Galuf: Cara, I'm borrowing your Hiryuu!  I have to rescue them!  Release the 
Hiryuu!

Soldier: Yes, sir!

Galuf hops on the Hiryuu and charges to Exdeath’s Castle and lands on it.

Galuf: You go back and stay with Cara!

Galuf jumps into Exdeath’s castle.  He obtains everyone’s items and the 
crystal shards from a chest.

Galuf: Butz, Lenna, Faris.  I'll be there in a sec!

He rushes down towards the cell, but Gilgamesh sees something.

Gilgamesh: Who's there!?

He attacks Galuf, but is easily defeated.  

Gilgamesh:  Crap.  Alright, for today, you are lucky, I'll let you go.

Butz: Galuf!

Galuf: Hang on there.  I'll open this up now.

Galuf opens the cell, everyone is free.

Faris: Thanks, Galuf.

Butz: Sorry, Galuf.  We.

Galuf: We'll talk later.  Let's get out of here!

As you sneak out through the castle, you'll pass other prisoners.

Galuf: Wow!  Gotta watch myself.

The party crawls past them.  Once they leave the castle they head to the big 
bridge,  Enemies will jump in their way as they try to cross it.

Galuf: It's full of monsters ahead!  We need to be careful!!

As they get to the other side, Gilgamesh pops out!

Gilgamesh: I've been waiting behind this door all this time!  I was getting 
anxious about what I'd do if you didn't show up!

Butz: Stand guard!!

Gilgamesh: I was wrong. I can't fight four people. I don't stand a chance. did 
you believe me!?  Hey!  I remembered urgent business! I'll be back!

Eventually they will make it to Cara.

Galuf: Cara!

Cara: Grandpa!  The barrier!!

A force field of sorts goes up and protects Exdeath’s lair.  The party are all 
blown off the bridge.

Cara: Grandpa!!  Grandpa!! *cries*

Quite some distance away the party lands.

Faris: Where is this.

Galuf: The continent of Grociana. A remote land where ferocious beasts dwell.  
How unfortunate that we were thrown here.

Butz: Galuf. I'm sorry.  Because of us.

Galuf: I told you, you didn't have to come.  *everyone else has now left the 
screen* But, You guys have made my day.

They'll make their way to nearby Rugor.  When they sleep in the inn, Galuf 
will wake up and leave.  Butz will follow him outside.

Butz: Hey. Where's Galuf?

He'll walk around a bit, and find Galuf inside of the Pub.

Galuf: Aah, this is too good!  The legendary wine of Rugor!  Nothing like it 
to soothe one's throat!!  What's going on, Butz?

Butz: Nothing. I just can't fall asleep.

Galuf: I see.  Well, why don't you sit down?

Butz: Galuf. I'm really sorry.  If we hadn't come, you would have been able to 
attack Exdeath's castle.

Galuf: Even if we had attacked the castle, the barrier would have blown us all 
to bits.  We didn't think it would be complete. But thanks to you guys we've 
survived!

Butz: Galuf.

Galuf: By the way, Butz. Knowing that you wouldn't be able to return to your 
own world, why did you come here?

Butz: There is no reason.

Galuf: Butz. You've made my day!!

Butz: Galuf! Stop that! 

They return to the inn.  Everyone wakes up the next day.  South of here is 
Kuzar, a legendary castle.  Inside of it is a room with 12 sealed weapons.

Galuf: These are. The 12 Legendary Sealed Weapons!  So they really did exist.

Butz: These are the ones used in battle 1000 years ago?

Lenna: They've all turned to stone.

Butz: We'll, they're so old.

Being unable to do anything else here, they are forced to wonder until 
stumbling in a Moogle Forest.  Butz will approach the Moogle, but he will run 
and fall into a hole.

Moogle: Kupo!

Galuf: A moogle!  Here!?  What a surprise!

Butz: Moogle?

Galuf: Mysterious little creatures that live in the forest.  They're very shy, 
and seldom come out where they can be seen.

Lenna: Let's get him!

They jump in the Moogle hole as well.  After a long drawn out underwater area, 
they will see a Moogle, but it is being attacked by an undead T-Rex.

Lenna: Moogle!!

Moogle: Kupo, kupo!!

After the T-Rex is killed, they will confront the Moogle.

Lenna: You don't need to be afraid. It's alright.  Come over here!

Moogle: Kupo.

Lenna: You're safe now!

Moogle: Kupo, kupo!!

The Moogle walks up to Lenna, then runs into another room.

Moogle: Kupo, po!!

Butz: What's it doing!?

Lenna: It looks like he's calling us.

The Moogle runs onto the world map and runs to another forest.  Butz will 
enter the Moogle forest and the Moogles will all run like mad saying Kupo!  
The Moogle you recently saved will recognize you.

Lenna: It's the moogle that we just rescued!

Moogle: Kupo!  Kupo!

Lenna: Are you thanking us?

The Moogle unlocks. her?  House of treasure chests.

Moogle: Kupo.

Lenna: It looks like he's telling us we can use this stuff.  
When they leave his house, he'll come out, he has some news.

Moogle: Kupo!

Galuf: What is it doing?

The scene shifts to Cara, she is near a moogle too.

Cara: What is it, why are you so upset?

Moogle: Kupo!!

Cara goes to the roof of her castle, which a Hiryuu sits on.

Soldier: What's going on?

Cara: It seems that Grandpa is at the Moogle Village!

Soldier: ?

Cara: Moogles can use telepathy.  Even when they're separated, they can talk 
with their minds.

Soldier: The Moogle Village. that's far away.

Cara: Yes. And the Hiryuu can't fly anymore.

The Hiryuu makes sounds.

Cara: Hiryuu. Thank You.  He'll fly just this once!

Soldier: Are you sure that's safe?

Back in the Moogle Village

Butz: What are they doing?

Moogle: Kupo!

Butz: The nose?

The Hiryuu reaches the Moogle Forest, but Cara can't see it.

Cara: I wonder where the Moogle Forest is?

Moogle: Kupo, po!

Cara: What? The "Nose"?

Hiryuu lands.  

Moogle: Kupo!

Galuf: Cara!!

Cara: Grandpa!!

Galuf: How did you find this place?

Cara: The Moogles showed me!  Grandpa!  Quick, we've got to return to the 
castle!

They all hop on the Hiryuu, it roars and takes off.  The Moogles wave 
goodbye.  The Hiryuu returns to Bal Castle.  Everyone hops off.

Cara: I'm going to go let the Hiryuu rest!

She hops back on it and flies it presumably to its nesting perch.

Soldier: King Galuf!!

Galuf: You all did great while I was away!

Soldier: King Galuf!!

They go to the throne room.

Galuf: What's going on with Exdeath?

Soldier: There have been no significant movements since the barrier's 
completion.

Galuf: I see. and our army?

Soldier: It was almost entirely wiped out with battles with Exdeath's monsters.

Galuf: ...

Soldier: I apologize, Sir.

Butz: And I thought you were just an old man. You were a king!?

Galuf: Well, so I am!

Butz: Boy, now this one's a shock.

Galuf: You've done great, everyone!  Take a break now!

Soldiers: Yes, sir!

Galuf: What is it, Butz?

Butz: I'm just so surprised that you could be a king!

Galuf: Why, is there a problem with that?  *Butz nods yes* What!!

Galuf Chases Butz around the room.

Butz: I'm just kidding!  Well then, I have to address you. Maybe 'King Galuf'.

Galuf: .  More importantly than my being the King of Bal, I am your friend.  
So you just call me.

Butz: Galuf!

Galuf: Yes!  Hahaha!!

On top of the castle Cara will be with the Hiryuu.

Lenna: Cara?

Cara: The Hiryuu, is dying.

Lenna: Huh?

Faris: What happened to him?

Cara: He's overstrained himself. He really shouldn't have been flying injured. 
But he flew.

Galuf: To help us. 

Faris: Isn't there any way we can save him?

Cara: ...

Lenna: Hiryuu Plant.

Cara: Hiryuu Plant?  If we had that, could we heal the Hiryuu?

Lenna: Yes, but is there any in this world?

Faris: Hiryuu Plant grows where Hiryuu live, right?

Galuf: Well.

Butz: There is some!?

Galuf: There's the Valley of the Hiryuu.  But no one who has gone in that 
place ever came back out.

Butz: Let's go!

Cara: Butz!

Galuf: The Valley of the Hiryuu is north of this castle, beyond the werewolf 
village of Kelb.

Cara: But. there are a ton of monsters outside of the castle!!

Galuf: It'll be alright.  We'll all be together!

Butz: We'll be fine!

Lenna: We'll be back soon!

Faris: With the Hiryuu Plant, for sure!

They go to the gates of Bal Castle, which have been closed to keep the 
monsters out.  It is under heavy guard.

Galuf: Open the gates!

Soldier: Yes but.  Outside the gate, the monsters let loose by Exdeath are.

Galuf: When we're out, immediately shut the gates, and seal them tight!!

Soldier: But Sir Galuf!  If we do that, you won't be able to get back into the 
castle!  Are you sure that's alright!?  *select yes*

The gates open, Galuf runs out.

Galuf: It's fine!  Just shut the gates and seal them tight!

Soldier: Yes, sir.

Soldier: King Galuf!  Please be careful!!

They seal the gates back up.

Galuf: Here they are!  Get ready, everyone!!

The enemies attack Galuf and crew.  They walk to Kelb.  There seems to be no 
one outside.

Galuf: We should be able to go to the Valley of the Hiryuu though the gate at 
the north end of this village.

They get to the gate, but it is closed.

Galuf: The gate's locked. Maybe we could ask Kelgar.

They enter Kelgar's hose, but he is not there.  As they try to leave several 
werewolves trap them.

Butz: Who the!?

Galuf: Butz!  Hold it!  They're my friends!!

Faris: Friends!?

Kelgar was in another room, he walks out.

Kelgar: Galuf!?

Galuf: Kelgar!

Kelgar: It's been a while.

Galuf: He's one of the Four Warriors of Dawn!

Butz: The warriors that fought against Exdeath 30 years ago?

Kelgar: Who are these people?

Galuf: They are warriors from the world where we sealed Exdeath.

Kelgar: Exdeath's minions!?

Butz: What!?

Kelgar: You shattered the Crystals and brought Exdeath back to life.

Galuf: No!   These people are!

Kelgar: Galuf!  Stand away!

Galuf is thrown to the side by Kelgar, who stares Butz down.

Kelgar: Butz or whatever your name is!  It's time for a match!

Butz: !?

Galuf: Kelgar.

Kelgar: Let's find out what's in your heart!

The other wolves leave.  

Butz: On Guard.

Butz and Kelgar battle around the room.

Kelgar: Now see if you can handle my Lupine Attack!!

Kelgar runs very fast around the room, but Butz doesn't flinch.

Butz: Now!!

Kelgar stops and Butz kicks him into the next room.

Galuf: Butz!!  You.

They meet up in another room, Kelgar is lying down in bed.

Butz: Kelgar.

Galuf: Kelgar, your old body can't take that much!

Kelgar: You evaded my Lupine Attack. You're pretty good.

Butz: It's a technique I learned from my father.

Kelgar: What?  What's your father's name?!

Butz: Dorgan.

Galuf and Kelgar flinch.

Butz: Wh... what's wrong, both of you?

Galuf: The son...

Kelgar: ... of Dorgan.

Butz: You know my father?

Galuf: Yes we know him.  Dorgan along with Kelgar, Zeza, and myself, fought 
together in the battles against Exdeath 30 years ago.

Kelgar: He's one of the Four Warriors of Dawn!

Butz: So my father was a person from this world!?

Kelgar: Yes.

Butz: ...

Galuf: We traveled to your world chasing Exdeath 30 years ago.  

A flashback occurs after the four warriors had defeated Exdeath.

Galuf: Is he invulnerable!?

Dorgan: This battle has no end!

Kelgar: We have to seal him here!

Zeza: We have no choice, do we?

Dorgan: Here!?  Are you suggesting we should seal a terrible evil from our own 
world in someone else's!?  I really can't agree to that!

Zeza: Have we a choice?

Kelgar: He's rejuvenating!

Galuf: Damn it!

Exdeath nears full power.

Kelgar: There's nothing we can do about it, we have to seal him here!

They try to seal him, but Dorgan doesn't help.

Galuf: Dorgan, to use the power of the Crystals that have gathered, we must 
join our spirits!

Kelgar: Dorgan!

Dorgan reluctantly helps.  They successfully seal Exdeath.  They are back on a 
meteor. 

Galuf: So you insist on staying?

Dorgan: Yeah.

Kelgar: But why!?

Dorgan: Farewell!

Dorgan leaves the meteor.

Galuf: Dorgan.

They return to the present.

Galuf: In order to watch over the seal on Exdeath, Dorgan stayed behind on 
your world.

Butz: I see.

Kelgar: By the way, how is Dorgan?

Butz: 3 years ago, he fell ill.

Kelgar: I see. Son of Dorgan, I'll do anything that would be of help.  I'll 
have the townspeople open the gate.  Soon the party will reach the Hiryuu 
mountain.  On the mountain they will encounter some dragons attacking a 
Golem.  Once saved, the Golem will thank them and join them as an Esper. There 
are a lot of Hiryuu Skeletons on the cliffs as well, what could be killing 
them all?  They will also make it to some Hiryuu Plant. 

Lenna: Look!

Faris: Hiryuu Plant!!

Lenna and Faris try to get it, but it suddenly grows large!

Faris: What the?

Lenna: Aaahhh!

They are attacked, but Butz and Galuf get them out of immediate danger.

Butz: What!?

Lenna: The Hiryuu Plant attacks people!?

Faris: It's turned into a monster.

Galuf: Is this why the Hiryuu have been dying out?

It attacks them.

Faris: The Hiryuu Plant!

The plant returns to normal.

Lenna: Look!!  Let's take it back to the castle!!

The return to Castle Bal, the gates are still locked.

Galuf: We're back!  Open the gates!!

Soldier: You must be Exdeath's minions!  You can't fool us!!

Galuf: Looks like we have no choice. Follow me!

Galuf jumps into the moat.  

Galuf: Well? What are you guys waiting for?

Everyone else jumps in after him.  They sneak around in a secret entrance.  
They talk to the soldiers who were holding the door shut.

Soldier: We're sorry, we were just being cautious!

Galuf: That's ok!

They walk up into the castle.  Cara is lying down.

Maid: Princess Cara. She says her head hurts. This way!!

Galuf: Cara!

Cara: Gr... and... pa.

Galuf: Are you alright?

Cara: He's calling us.

Galuf: Don't speak, Cara!

Cara: He's calling. Guido is calling us.

Butz: Guido?

Cara: Quickly. go talk to Guido!

Butz: Who's this Guido she's talking about?

Galuf: He is a sage who has lived for 700 years. he is the one who predicted 
that the Crystals on your world would shatter!

Butz: And he's calling us?

Galuf: He may have found a way to defeat Exdeath!

Cara: ...

Galuf: Cara. get better soon. We're going to meet with Guido.  Hang in there.

Cara: But you will need the Hiryuu.

Galuf: It's alright. We've brought the Hiryuu Plant!

Cara: Really!  The Hiryuu's on the top of this tower.

Galuf: Will you come with me?

Lenna: Yes!

Faris: Of course!

Butz: Let's go!  But, where would this Guido be?

Galuf: Northeast of the Hiryuu Valley.  It's a small island off of the 
continent!

They walk to the top of the tower, Lenna feeds the Hiryuu some Hiryuu Plant.

Lenna: Here you go, have some!

Hiryuu refuses to eat it.

Butz: It's because of this weed that the Hiryuu are becoming extinct. He 
doesn't trust it.

Galuf: But he has to!  hurry, if we don't make him eat the Hiryuu Plant he'll 
die!

Lenna: It's safe.  See, watch me eat it. *munch*

Faris: Lenna!  What are you doing!!

Butz: Lenna!  The Hiryuu weed is extremely poisonous to humans!!

Lenna: Come on. eat it up!

The Hiryuu eats the plant and is healthy again!  It lets out a roar!

Lenna: Good boy!

Lenna falls over, she was poisoned.

Faris: Lenna!!

Cara comes up to the top of the tower.

Cara: Lenna!!  Drink this!

Lenna is healed by Cara's drink!  Everyone is well!

Faris: Lenna!!

Butz: Lenna!! Are you alright!?

Lenna: Yes. Thank you, Cara.

Cara: You're crazy, Lenna!

Faris: Really!

Lenna: I'm sorry.

Galuf: Cara!  Are you alright now?

Cara: I. I'm fine.

Cara faints!

Galuf: Cara!!

Cara gets back up!

Cara: I'll. be fine.

Butz: Geez, everyone's overdoing it!

Cara: ...

Galuf: Now you take a rest!

Cara: Yessiree.

Lenna: Cara!  Thank you!!

Cara: No. It was you who saved the Hiryuu. Thank YOU!!

Galuf: Stay in bed!

Cara: Yes, sir. You be careful too!  To Guido's place!

Lenna: Yes! 

Faris: Guido, here we come!

Butz: Let's go!

They get on the Hiryuu, it lets out another roar and lifts off.  They land 
near Sage Guido’s home, which is in fact an island.

Butz: This?

Galuf: Sage Guido's dwelling!

Lenna: Let's go!

Faris: Wait a minute??

The ground shakes.

Butz: An earthquake!?  The island!!

Galuf: To the Hiryuu!!

They jump on the Hiryuu, the entire island sinks under the ocean thanks to the 
earthquake!  The scene shifts to Exdeath.

Exdeath: Mwahaha. This is what happens to those who oppose me!!

Hiryuu flies up from under the water with everyone on its back.  They fly to 
the nearest place, Castle Surgate.  When they try to let themselves in the 
castle, some guards question them.

Guard: Who are you people!

Guard 2: This is King Galuf!  What are you guys doing!  This is King Galuf of 
Bal!!

Guard: King Zeza is leading the Surgate fleet to Exdeath Castle.

Galuf: Really!

Faris: This Zeza's one of the Four Warriors of Dawn?

Butz: One of my father's battle partners.

Guard: this way, please!

They enter the throne room.

Guard: Please feel free to use the things in the castle as you'd like!

Galuf: Thank you!

They fly the Hiryuu to the fleet and land on the lead ship, positioned at sea 
outside of Exdeath's Castle.

Zeza: What's that Hiryuu doing here?  Wait!  These aren't enemies!  Well if it 
isn't Galuf!

Galuf: Zeza!  Long time no see!  This is Dorgan's son, Butz!

Zeza: The son of Dorgan!?

Galuf: And these two are of a royal family on the other world.

Zeza: I am Zeza the swordsman.

Galuf: Not King Zeza?

Zeza: No. I think "King" just doesn't suit me well.

Galuf: Yeah, really!  Same here!!  Can we get into Exdeath's castle?

Zeza: Sure.  We have everything perfectly planned out!  For now, let's go 
inside and rest!

But what is this?  When the party goes to lay down, the ship comes under 
attack!  

Guards: Monsters!  They're attacking us!!

Butz and company run up to the main deck.

Galuf: Zeza, what's going on!?

Zeza: Enemies are coming!

Enemies board the ships.  

Galuf: Crap, we're surrounded!

Zeza duels some monsters!

Zeza: I'll take this one!

Galuf: Don't blow it!

Zeza: Same to you!  Grrrr.

Zeza and the monster battle onto another ship.  Zeza starts casting lightning 
bolts at them, but he gets in over his head.  Galuf heads towards Gilgamesh.

Gilgamesh: Starkle, starkle, little twink.  Now it's time that you guys SINK!!!

During the fight Gilgamesh does his typical talking when Enkidou comes to help 
him.

Gilgamesh: What took you so long?

Enkidou: That old man, gave me a bit of trouble.

Gilgamesh: First aid. please!  Enkidou, I'll leave the rest to you!  
Enkidou??  Hey, don't leave me!!  *after battle*  Grrrr!  I'll drag you down 
with me. into the sea!!

Gilgamesh tries to throw everyone in, but they grab onto the very edge of the 
ship while he falls into the water.

Galuf: Ack!!

Gilgamesh: Hey!  You filthy slime!  You'll pay for this!!! *gag*

Galuf: My hands are going numb.

Zeza: Hold on until I get there!

Galuf: I can't hold on any longer!

Galuf falls, but right onto the Hiryuu!

Galuf: Hiryuu!

Zeza: Come on, now it's our turn to strike!  Follow me!

They follow him below deck.

Zeza: Take the other side of this chest!

They reveal a secret passage, they enter it.

Zeza: Alright!  Let's go!!

They're in a submarine!  What treachery!

Galuf: What is this?

Zeza: The boats were simply a decoy.  We're going to sneak into the Barrier 
Tower from the bottom of the sea in this submarine.

Galuf: How clever!

Zeza: We've dug a tunnel to the tower.  Let's get going!

They enter the tunnel they dug.

Zeza: Let's go!  Stay back!

Zeza blows a whole through the wall of the tower.

Zeza: Let's go!

Galuf: Is this the Barrier Tower?

Zeza: Yes.  If we destroy this, the barrier should disappear!  I'll go to the 
power room down below.  There is an antenna on the top floor. you go there!

Galuf: And break the antenna? 

Zeza: Right.  While I have the power stopped, blow up the antenna!  Take this 
with you.

Zeza hands Galuf a communication device.

Galuf: What's this?

Zeza: We can use it to communicate.  Let's go!  Go on!

Zeza [through communicator]: Can you hear me?

Butz: ??

Galuf: It's Zeza!

Zeza: Can you hear me?

Galuf: We hear ya!

Zeza: I've reached the power room.  Everything's fine here.  [someone comes 
from behind him] !

The being charges, but Zeza sidesteps him and hits him with lightning.

Galuf: What's going on, Zeza?

Zeza: It's nothing.  Just hurry to the top floor.

Galuf: Ok!

Galuf [in communicator on the top of the tower]: Zeza!  We've reached the top 
floor!

Zeza: Good!  

Zeza shuts off the power to the tower.

Zeza: Now!! Destroy the antenna!

Butz tries to hit the antenna, but something prevents him.

Atmos: You wish. But I'm here to stop you!!

The antenna is destroyed!

Butz: We did it! 

Galuf: Zeza!  Can you hear us!?  We've destroyed it!

The power room begins to explode, Zeza gets trapped inside.

Zeza: Escape is futile.  Galuf!  It's dangerous here.  Get out quickly.  The 
built up energy will swell and explode!

On the top of the tower, the Hiryuu can be heard.

Lenna: Hiryuu!  Let's ride him.

Galuf: Zeza!  We're coming!

Zeza: Don't come!  Wait in the submarine.  I'm fine, I'll catch up to you.

Galuf: He won't make it!

Butz: Galuf, it's dangerous!

Galuf: But!

Butz: Lenna, you guys go first.

Lenna and Faris jump onto the Hiryuu.

Galuf: Zeza. you knew this would happen all along!  And you sacrificed 
yourself.

Zeza: Wait for me in the sub!  I'll come for sure.  I promise.  Zeza signing 
off!

Galuf tries to rush down, Butz holds him back.

Galuf: Zeza!

Zeza: Of course I knew. But, there was no way I could send you.  Warriors of 
the Crystal, it's up to you guys now.  Galuf., Butz, Lenna, Faris.  Don't 
worry. I'll come to help you again.

The reactor room blows up and Zeza perishes in the fire.

Galuf: Zeza!!

Butz: I can't help it.

Butz KO's Galuf and picks him up.  He jumps off the tower and lands on the 
Hiryuu.

Galuf: Oof. Butz, go in the submarine.

Butz: Galuf. Zeza had to have been.

Galuf: It was my final promise to him.  Please let me keep it.

The tower collapses and the force field around Exdeath's castle stops 
functioning.  The action resumes where the sub was parked.

Galuf: Zeza. You showoff.

On the Sub.

Faris: We might be able to get to Guido's sunken cave with the sub.

Butz: You're right. How was he?

Lenna: I think he'll be alright if he just rests a bit.

Butz: Alright then, let's go!

As they walk through Guido's now sunken lair, they'll encounter a cute little 
turtle.

Butz: A turtle!

They'll jump into the water to follow it.  In the next room Butz examines the 
turtle.

Butz: What's this turtle!?

He starts hitting it, the turtle hides in its shell.

Galuf: Butz!  Stop that!!

Butz: But its fun!!

Turtle: Cut that out!!

Everyone but Galuf is stunned it can talk.

Butz: It... it spoke!?

Galuf: Sage Guido.  I am so sorry for his impoliteness.

Butz: Hey, wait, you mean this turtle is.

Lenna: Sage Guido?

Galuf: Yes, he is!  How could you be so rude!!

Guido: It's fine, it's fine!

Butz: Sorry.

Guido: It's fine. Anyways, I have something to tell you.  You must hurry.

Butz: Is it about Exdeath?

Guido: Yes.  The thing he is after is in the Great Forest of Mua.

Butz: The Great Forest of Mua? 

Guido: The living forest which stretches to the west of Surgate Castle. 
Exdeath's birthplace.

Butz: !?

Guido: About 500 years ago, an evil spirit sealed in the Mua Forest turned one 
of the trees into a monster.  The tree is Exdeath. For 500 years, I had kept 
Exdeath sealed, but 30 years ago, the seal was broken.

Butz: The battle of the Four Warriors of Dawn 30 years ago.

Guido: Yes.  Dorgan and his fellows did very well.  They resealed Exdeath with 
the power of the Crystals.  But, now he has returned.

Butz: It's our fault.

Guido: No, it's not.  Anything sealed is destined to return. He must be 
DESTROYED this time!!

Butz: Well, where would he be!? 

Guido: Probably.  In the Great for of Mua.  He seeks something that lies there.

Butz: The Great Forest of Mua.  

Guido: Please!  Go to the Great Forest and protect what rests there!!

Butz: To the Great Forest of Mua.

Galuf: For Zeza's vengeance!

Faris: And to defeat Exdeath!

Lenna: Let's go!

Guido: The Forest of Mua is alive.  No matter who they might be, anyone who 
enters the forest will be attacked.

Butz: ...

Guido: Take this with you.

Butz is given a big stick known as the Elder Branch.

Butz: What's this?

Guido:  It's a branch of the oldest tree in the forest. a part of the 
protector of the seal.  With this, you can enter the forest.  Please hurry!  
Exdeath is already on his way to the Forest of Mua!

Butz: Gotcha!

They journey a long way to the Great Forest.  They enter it.

Lenna: ? The branch!

The branch sparkles up and opens the way.

Faris: The forest is.

Butz: Accepting us?

After some moving around, the earth begins to shake.

Butz: Huh?

For once it isn't a meteor, or an earthquake.  The forest is being burned down!

Butz: What the?  Exdeath's setting the forest on fire!?

Butz and the party seem trapped!  Soon after a Moogle pops up from under 
ground.

Moogle: Kupo!

Butz Jumps in the hole.

Butz: Let's wait a while until the fire is out.

They wait under the ground for a while.  They go back up top to find most of 
the forest has been burnt to a crisp.  They see one huge tree still standing.

Lenna: What's that?

Galuf: The Master Tree. The one who guards the seal?

Butz: The branch!?

The Elder Branch opens a door in the master tree and a path too it.  Once 
inside the door closes.  There are four seals in the room.

Butz: What are these?

Galuf: The sealed!?

They come towards the party.

Galuf: Stand guard!!  

The seals attack, but are defeated.  They return to the areas they were when 
everyone entered the room.

Exdeath: Wonderful work, Warriors of the Crystal!  You have broken the seal. 
Hahaha.  I can't thank you enough.

Galuf: Exdeath!!

Exdeath: The seal has been dissolved by the power of the four warriors! 

The seals show their true form, Crystals.

Butz: What!?

Galuf: Crystals!?

Exdeath: The power of the Crystals which has bounded me, will now become my 
own!

The Crystal fall between Exdeath and the party.  

Exdeath: Kneel down before the Crystals!

He kicks the Crystals at Butz, Lenna, Galuf and Faris.  All four are pinned 
down by a massive attack from them.  The scene shifts to Bal Castle.  Cara is 
on the Hiryuu perch.

Cara: My heart is pounding. Has something happened to Grandpa?

Moogle: Kupo!

Cara: Huh?  In the Great Forest of Mua!?  Hiryuu!

The Hiryuu roars.  Back to the Master Tree.  The party is still be annihilated 
by the crystals.

Exdeath: This is the end!  Perish!!

The room shakes with the power, but a spell comes and bashes Exdeath to the 
floor.  The Crystals stop their attack.  Cara walks into the room.

Cara: Grandpa! Butz! Lenna! Faris!!

Galuf: What did you do to Exdeath!?

Cara: He shouldn't be able to move for a while. Huh!?

Exdeath gets up slowly.

Exdeath: Damn you.

He summons a fire ring and imprisons Cara with it.

Cara: Stop it!!!  

Exdeath: Die!!

Cara runs into walls trying to break it's grip, but is unable to.  She falls 
to the ground.

Cara: G... rand... pa!

Galuf: Ca... ra!

Exdeath activates the Crystals again.  Everyone is held down, except for Galuf 
who slowly makes his way towards the Crystals.

Exdeath: Isn't this nice, Galuf?  Resist my power and the Crystals shatter!!

Galuf: Cara!!

Galuf walks closer to the crystal and shatters it.  He then enters the ring of 
fire around Cara, putting it out and freeing her, though she is rather knocked 
out.  At this point Galuf is flashing red, near death.

Galuf: Exdeath!!

Galuf challenges Exdeath in a fight.  Galuf’s HP will be reduced to zero, but 
he doesn't quit.  Exdeath keeps hitting Galuf, but what else can be done.  

Exdeath: Take this. You've made me mad!  To the world of Death with you!!  
*casts Flare, Holy and Meteo*  Wh-, why won't you die!

Galuf: Not yet.  I can't die yet.  Even if my life burns out. I will defeat 
you!!

Exdeath: I cannot be defeated by anger or hatred.

Galuf: This isn't anger. nor is it hatred!

Exdeath: Then what is it?

Exdeath is defeated.  The Crystals stop attacking and return to Exdeath.  He 
vanishes out of site.  Galuf is unable to move on the ground.

Cara: Grandpa!

Lenna: Galuf!!

Cara: Grandpa!!

Butz: Galuf!

Lenna: Galuf!!

Faris: Get up!!

Galuf: I'm... done for...

Butz: Galuf!  What are you saying!

Lenna: Galuf!

Faris: Stand up!

Cara: Open your eyes!!

Galuf: Butz, Lenna, Faris, And Cara. Defeat...  Defeat... Ex... death...

Cara: Grandpa!  Please don't die!!

Everyone starts using magic and items to bring Galuf around.

Butz: Galuf, don't die!  Cure3!

Lenna: Please. Life!!

Faris: Wake up!  Phoenix Down!  Elixir!

Galuf has died.  Cara falls to her knees crying.

Cara: Grandpa!! Noooo!  Don't die!!

The room begins to flash.

Cara: Grandpa's calling!!

The room starts to shake.  Cara walks outside.  

Galuf: Cara.

Cara: What. Grandpa!?

Galuf: Borrowing the power of the Master Tree that has protected the Crystals 
for 1000 years, I give you my strength.  

Cara: Grandpa!  Where are you?

Galuf: You aren't alone. Remember this, Cara.

Cara picks up something left by Galuf, it gives her every ability he knew.

Cara: Grandpa. I feel warm. I feel, Grandpa.

Galuf: I'll still, be with you, forever.

Cara: Grandpa, I understand.  Hmm. What about Exdeath?

The rest of the party comes out of the Master Tree now.

Butz: Cara!

Cara: Butz! Lenna, Faris!  I'm going to fight with you!!

Butz: Cara.

Cara: Exdeath is trying to destroy all of the Crystals.  Grandpa told me so.  
We have to hurry!  Let's go!  To Exdeath Castle!  Hiryuu!

The Hiryuu roars and lands nearby.  Everyone hops on it.  It roars again and 
lifts off into the skies.  First, taking a stop at Kelgar's house there is 
some great dialogue.

Kelgar: Zeza and Galuf both. So I'm the last of the Four Warriors of Dawn.  
It's funny.  That a senile old man like myself would.  I see Zeza.  *coughs* I 
should be fighting along with you guys but. I'm sorry.

Exdeath's castle is the final place on this world.  Upon entering it seems as 
if there was a little battle.  The soldiers are all beaten to a pulp.  After a 
few floors there is a seemingly dead end.

Butz: A dead end.  Cara. what is it?

Cara: An illusion created by Exdeath.

Lenna: You can tell!?

Cara: Grandpa, lend us your power!

The scene shifts back to Kelgar's house.  He's really on his last leg now.  

Kelgar: I see. so Galuf too. Dorgan, Zeza, Galuf.  They're all gone.  *cough*  
And I'm not long for this world either.

Werewolves: Sir Kelgar!!

Kelgar: It looks like it's time for me to rest.

Galuf's ghost appears. 

Kelgar: Who is it?  Galuf?  Is it Galuf?  Cara is?

Galuf's ghost leaves.

Kelgar: Galuf. I understand!  Everybody. lend me your power!  

Werewolves: Sir Kelgar!

Kelgar: Smash Exdeath's illusion!  The last of my life.  With everyone's power 
I'll send it to you in Exdeath's castle!!

Kelgar dies.

Werewolves: Sir Kelgar!!

Cara: Grandpa. And. the wolves too!!

Butz: Kelgar!?

The room lights up.

Cara: Everyone's power!!

The illusions are removed.  The once magnificent castle looks like. death.  In 
the castle is Carbunkle, it challenges you to a fight.

Carbunkle: If you are stronger than me, I'll join you. Come now. Let me see 
how powerful you are!  *after you win* You are quite strong!  I'm coming with 
you!!

Hey hey hey!  On the 11th floor there is a chest.  If you try to open it is 
empty.  But, it brings along an optional fight with Gilgamesh!

Butz: Gilgamesh!

Gilgamesh: Hahaha!  I've take what was inside this box!!

There will be a fight, as usual he will ramble on and on.

Gilgamesh: So.  Let's see.  This is our fourth time, huh.  Makes me kinda 
happy.  By the way. Where's that jolly old man?

Cara: Exdeath.

Gilgamesh: I see. ... Ok, this is the end of my warm-up.  Gilgamesh change!!  
Excalibur.  Let me see your strength!  *it does very bad damage*  Huh!?  What 
the!?  Isn't it the strongest sword!?

Exdeath: Gilgamesh!

Gilgamesh: ...

Exdeath: You worthless.  To the Cleft of Dimension!

Gilgamesh: D... don't!!  Forgive me!

Exdeath: Silence!

Gilgamesh is exiled to the Cleft of Dimension.

Gilgamesh: Aaahh!!!

They journey up to the top of the Castle, the 13th floor.  Exdeath is up there 
with the three remaining Crystals.

Exdeath: Don't try to stop me!

Butz: Exdeath!  You can't get away with this!

Exdeath: Fwahaha!  Do you even know what I'm trying to do?

Butz: What??

Exdeath: I'm returning the world to its original form.

Butz: To a world of evil!

Exdeath: No, you don't understand.  I won't let you interfere!!

One hell of a fight starts up, once it is won, Exdeath will be gone.  The room 
shakes heavily.

Lenna: The Crystals!

Butz: They're shattering!?

The three Crystals shatter, everyone is knocked down.  The place continues to 
shake.  When they come to their senses, they will be back on their world, so 
far as they know, near Tycoon Castle.

Lenna: What's that!?

Faris: Castle Tycoon?

Lenna: Are we back?

They enter Tycoon Castle and meet up with the Chancellor.

Chancellor: Princess Lenna!  Princess Sarisa!  Welcome back!!

Lenna: Father is.

Chancellor: It's so unfortunate that the king has passed away.  But, somehow 
we must get over this.  And instead, Princess Sarisa has returned to us alive, 
so.

Faris: Sarisa.  So that's my real name.

Chancellor: That it is.

Faris: The name that my father has given me.

Butz: Hey hey!

Chancellor: Come along now! Your friends too! The banquet preparations are 
finished!!

They enter the throne room, Lenna takes her seat.  Faris is in another room 
changing.  

Faris: I hate looking like this!

Chancellor: Oh, don't say that Princess!

Faris: Well.

Butz: Wow!  She's so beautiful!  Really, isn't she.

Cara: Butz!  Why are you blushing?

Butz: Oh shut it.

A grand dance occurs in the throne room. Cara leaves the room.  Butz joins her 
out on a balcony.

Cara: Grandpa.

Butz: What is it, Cara?  Something about Galuf?

Cara: Yeah. But I'm not sad. My heart is beating fast.  It feels like Grandpa 
is telling us to hurry, somewhere.

Butz: I understand.  Let's go.

Cara: Huh?

Butz: How were we sent back to my world. We have to look into this.

Cara: Yes!

They begin to leave, Cara stops at the door.

Cara: What about Lenna and Faris?

Butz: There's nothing we can do about them.

As they leave the castle a guard smashes into them.

Guard: I bring news that the bridge across the river to the west has been 
finished at last.

Butz: I wonder if Boco could be in the cave to the west.

Cara: Who's Boco?

Butz: The chocobo I used to ride around on.

Cara: Really?

Butz: What, you don't believe me?

Cara: But Butz, you couldn't ride the Hiryuu well at all.

Butz: What are you talking about!

Butz hits Cara! 

Cara: Now you've done t!  Take this!!

Cara pounds Butz!

Butz: I'm no match for you, Cara.

Butz and Cara go to the cave where Boco was left.  Boco runs out.

Butz: Boco!

Boco: Wark!!

Cara: How do you do!  I'm Cara!  Nice to meet you!

Butz: Cara. You can talk with chocobos!?

Cara: Yeah, just a little.  It looks like he wants to introduce us to 
someone.  Wow!  He says that's his wife!  Her name's, Coco.

The wife appears.

Butz: Boco!  So you've!  Boco, I need you to do something for me.

Boco: Wark!

Cara: He says he knows.

Butz: Huh?

Cara: You're leaving on a journey again.

Butz: Is that okay with you, Boco!?

Boco nods and talks to Coco.

Butz: What's he saying?

Cara: He's telling her that he loves her.

Butz: Oh!

Cara: And to please take care of their children while he's away.

Butz: Children?

Cara: Coco is pregnant!  Coco says she'll be waiting for him to return.

Butz: Boco. Thank you!

Boco: Wark!!

They hop on Boco, he waves goodbye with his wing.  After a long ride, Boco 
falls under the earth!

Butz: Owee.

Cara: Well, you've got to admit, we were going a bit too fast.

Butz: Boco!  This is your fault!!

Boco: Wark!

Cara: Oh, don't take it out on him.

The room shakes and something comes up from the ground.

Cara: Butz!  What's that?

They get attacked and win.

Butz: Oh great. 

Cara: And we're stuck.

Boco: Wark.

A rope is dropped into the cave from above.  But every time Butz gets near it, 
the rope moves up.

Voice: Will you promise never to do such a thing again?  Admit your error?  
Hehehe.  Get up here!

Butz climbs the rope after Boco does.  Who could have lowered it.  It was 
Faris!

Butz: Faris!

Faris: So whose idea was it to leave me behind?

Cara and Butz point at each other and deny it.

Faris: Just never do that again!

Butz: But why'd you?

Faris: Hey, look. I'm not fit to be a Princess!

Cara: Ouch!

Butz: Cara, what's wrong?

Cara: I think I have a splinter.

Faris joins up and everyone rides away on Boco.  They stop near Guido's Cave.  
He's still alive, but has fallen upside down onto his shell!!

Butz: Guido!?

Butz turns him over.

Guido: Sorry, sorry.  I got flipped over when the worlds merged back into 
one.  And when I'm flipped over, I can't do a thing! Fo ho ho!!

Butz: Guido. The worlds merging into one again?

Guido: The legend. I hadn't thought that it would be true. Even I don't 
believe it, but.  According to legend. 1000 years ago, Butz's world and Cara's 
world. were together as one whole world.  The worlds were one!?

Guido: That's right.

Butz: Why was the world split into two?

Guido: To seal off the power of the Void.

Butz: The Void?

Guido: Yes.  1000 years ago, there was a powerful evil called Enuo.  Enuo was 
able to control the power of the Void.  The battle raged on for a long time.  
Eventually, using the 12 Legendary Weapons, the people defeated Enuo.  But 
they were not able to get rid of the Void that Enuo had created.  The people 
were left with no choice but to. split the Crystals into two.  When the 
Crystals that supported the world were split, the world split into two as 
well.  The space between the two worlds, called the Cleft of Dimension, was 
where the people chose to seal the Void.

Butz: So what Exdeath said was true.

Cara: Returning the world to its original form.

Faris: But the Crystals are gone.

Butz: The wind won't come back.

Cara: And neither will the blessings of the earth and water, nor the power of 
fire.  Ouch!  The splinter.

Avast!  Cara was holding Exdeath in her hand!  He had taken the form of a 
splinter!

Butz: Exdeath!

Exdeath: Mwahaha. I had disguised myself as a little splinter, waiting for 
this moment.  My true objective is to obtain the power of Void sealed in the 
Cleft of Dimension.

Butz: What!?

Exdeath: That is the reason I brought the world back to its original state. 
Hahahahaha.

Exdeath and everyone else is shocked by the world shaking.  A black void 
appears near Tycoon Castle.

Guido: The Cleft of Dimension is beginning to appear in this world!

Faris: The Void.

Exdeath: Yes!  That's what I'm after!  Now it's time to make the power of the 
Void mine!!

Butz: Exdeath. Never!

Exdeath hits everyone with a nasty spell, buts gets up quickly only to get hit 
again.  Guido falls into the water.

Cara: Castle Tycoon!

Faris: Lenna!!

Castle Tycoon is getting hit from fireballs from above.  The void totally eats 
it!

Exdeath: Splendid!  Behold the power of the Void!  The power that devours all, 
the strongest power there is!  And soon it shall be MINE!

Faris: Lenna!!  Why you!!

Faris charges Exdeath, he greets her and everyone nearby with more fireballs.

Exdeath: Fools. Fwahahahaha.  This is the end!  Perish!!

Guido jumps out of the water and rams into Exdeath.

Exdeath: Damned turtle!

Guido and Exdeath battle.  Guido is remarkably quick for a turtle.

Exdeath: You're not too shabby!

Guido: Haven't been doing nothing all 700 years of my life.

Exdeath: Hahaha!  You won't be saying that much longer.

The room grows dark and shakes.  Exdeath blows everyone off of the screen.

Exdeath: Fools.  Fwahahahaha.

Everyone wakes up outside somewhere.

Guido: Ouch.

Butz: Guido!  Are you alright!?

Guido: Damn that Exdeath!  Something MUST be done before the power of the Void 
is his!

Guido sees something.

Guido: What's that!?

Butz: The Ancient Library.

Guido: What!  The Legendary Ancient Library!!  I see!  So it was in your 
world!!  Let's go, there's a book there I have to see.

In the Library.

Scholar: Mr. Guido!!

Guido: The scholars of Surgate!

Scholar: The Sealed Book has been put together!

Guido: Yes!  I call a meeting.  The two worlds have rejoined.  The power of 
the Void that was sealed in the Cleft of Dimension is about to return!

Butz: Then let's hurry to the Cleft of Dimension!!

Guido: Not so fast!  Many monsters were sealed in the Cleft of Dimension along 
with the Void 1000 years ago.  They are very powerful.  You can't defeat them 
yet.

Butz: Well then, what should we do?

Guido: Break the seals on the twelve legendary weapons that were used to 
defeat Enuo 1000 years ago!

Butz: Twelve weapons?

Guido: Yes.  And in order to do that.  You'll need this Sealed Book that has 
been split in two!  If the legend is correct. The book will show you the way.  

The scholars from both worlds merge the book into one.

Butz: The book!?

Guido: When the power of the Void returns, the Sealed Book will speak to the 
Light Warriors.

The book begins to speak.

Book: The twelve weapons we used in the war against Enuo we seal in the castle 
of Kuzar. The keys to released the seals are four stone tablets. One rests 
with the souls of the past, protected by the earth.  One is in an island 
shrine, protected by the wind.  One is in a place deeper than the floor of the 
sea, protected by flame.  And the last behind a waterfall, protected by 
water.  We also seal our servants.  The keys to released them are the four 
stone tablets.  When the tablets are moved, our servants shall also revive.  
The ultimate black and white spells and the greatest Dimensional spell, 
Meteo.  The Sea King Leviathan and the King of Dragons, Bahamut.  Hold this 
book up to the door and the path to the seal will open.

The Sealed Book gives itself to Butz.

Guido: Before Exdeath gets the power of the Void, dissolve the seals on the 
twelve legendary weapons!  The first stone tablet. Resting with souls of the 
past and protected by earth. The Quicksand Desert's Pyramid!  Butz!  Faris, 
Cara!! The fate of the entire world is in your hands!!

They head to the pyramid, but see the Master Tree along the way.

Butz: The Master Tree.

Faris: The Forest of Mua is beginning to restore itself.

Cara: Grandpa. Grandpa, won't be coming back?

Faris: Lenna. Dad.

Butz: Many lives have disappeared.

Cara: We must stop Exdeath.  The people of the world. Not just for them. But 
for all life.

Faris: I can't take it anymore.  I can't stand seeing any more lives lost.

Butz: Let's go.  We'll protect them.

They enter the quicksand area, it no longer flows.

Butz: The quicksand's stopped!

Cara: Since the Earth Crystals shattered, the power of earth has totally 
disappeared.

Faris: The earth is weakened.

The book opens when they reach the Pyramid.

Cara: The Sealed Book!

A page tears out and starts the door on fire.

Book: One rests with the souls of the past, protected by the earth.  
Eventually they reach the first tablet and take it.  The pyramid begins to 
shake.

Butz: What was that!?

The floor elevates them outside.

Cara: There's writing on the tablet. The Dragon King Bahamut?

The view goes to the world map, an island sinks.

Cara: The peninsula's sinking!?

A massive Dragon flies up from where it was, it is Bahamut.

Butz: Stand Guard!

Bahamut: I'll be waiting for you on the North Mountain.

Faris: Look!  The airship's being washed this way.

The steamship/airship floats somewhere nearby.  They walk back to the Master 
Tree.  A Hiryuu is heard roaring.

Cara: Hiryuu!!

The Hiryuu lands.  It drops off Lenna!  She's very injured.

Faris: Lenna!

Butz: Lenna!  Wake up!!

Lenna: ...This body is mine!

Faris: Lenna!

Exdeath: Go!  Merugene!  You're finally free from the Cleft of Dimension after 
a thousand years!!

Exdeath appears behind Lenna, who is controlled by Merugene.

Butz: Exdeath!!

Exdeath: Fwahaha. The monsters of the Cleft of Dimension have all become my 
minions!!

Lenna attacks everyone but Exdeath.

Butz: Ugh.

Faris: Lenna, stop.

Cara: Please.

Exdeath: How nice, being killed at the hands of your own.

Exdeath leaves.

Butz: Exdeath!

Exdeath: Fwa, ha, ha. Before you, I think I'm going to get rid of that turtle.

The Ancient Library is engulfed by Void.  Everyone is sucked [technically 
blown] into it.  The Library is gone!  Exdeath returns near Butz.

Exdeath: Soon, this power will completely be mine, and the world will be 
brought to its knees!!  Fwahahahaha.

Exdeath leaves again.

Butz: Le... nna.  St... op!

The Hiryuu attacks the possessed Lenna, knocking her down.  The monster leaves 
her, the Hiryuu is seemingly dead.

Butz: Now!!

They attack Merugene.  Lenna is still out cold.

Butz: Lenna!!

Lenna: Butz... I...

Faris: Lenna!!

Lenna: Sister., Cara. The castle. I was surrounded in total darkness.

Faris: We understand. Try not to speak.

Lenna rejoins everyone.  They find the airship which was brought to shore by 
Bahamut's rising.

Lenna: The entrance to the Cleft of Dimension is where Castle Tycoon 
disappeared.

Cara: Let's hurry!  We have to get there before Exdeath gains the power of the 
Void!!

Faris: But Guido said we'd never win with the strength we've got now.

Butz: The twelve legendary weapons. The Sealed Castle of Kuzar. Let's hurry!

They take off, Exdeath is in the Cleft of Dimension.

Exdeath: The power of the Void. I can't control it?  How's this!?  Power of 
the Void!  Show yourself!

It does something.

Exdeath: Go!  Destroy the world!  Show me your power!!

Many Voids fly over various castles and towns on the world.  They are all 
wiped out of existence.

Cara: Towns are being sucked into the Void!!

Butz: Exdeath! Why you!!!

More places are voided, the poor Moogles ;_;.

Moogle: Kupo!  Kupo! Cara!  Kupo!

In Lix.

People: Ahh!  Butz, help!

Lenna: How terrible.

Faris: Butz's hometown. The village of Lix.

Cara: I... I can't believe this.

Butz runs to the wheel of the airship.

Butz: Grrrrrrrrrr!!

He flies the thing around the world, what's left of it, at blazing speeds.  
The ship begins to stress.

Faris: Butz!  Stop!!

The ship slows down.  They go to the Pirates base.  Syldra is there!  

Faris: Syldra!  You're alive!!

Butz: Faris, what is it?

Lenna: Faris, what do you see?

Faris: Huh?  But. Syldra's right there.

Cara: So your name is Syldra. You're a good baby aren't you.

Faris: Cara!  You can see him!?

Cara: Syldra's soul says that he wants to help you, Faris.

Faris: What!?

Cara: Such a good boy.

Syldra joins them as an Esper, only his spirit was ever in the room.  They now 
go to the Sealed Castle of Kuzar.  In the  Sealed Room, the tablet will place 
itself on the altar.

Butz: The tablet!?

Three seals will be broken.  Stand before a weapon, and take it.  After all 
three seals are broken, the tablet will disintegrate.

Butz: Three seals. Is it telling us to pick up three of the twelve weapons?

After three are chosen, the tablet shatters.  The scene shifts Exdeath, still 
in the Cleft.

Exdeath: MY servants, monsters of the Cleft of Dimension!  The warriors guided 
by the light of the Crystals are searching for the ancient stone tablet.  Go, 
kill them!!  We can't let them have the Twelve Legendary Weapons.

Monster: We'll do it!  

Exdeath: Go!  My minions!  Meanwhile. I shall gain the power of the Void!!

Down below Bal Castle lies Odin.  He will challenge you.

Odin: Did you come to defeat me?  Well I don't have time to keep you company.  
I'll give you just one minute.  Is that okay? [yes].  Hmph, I won't spare you 
any mercy after one minute.  Do you still want to try? [yes].  Hmph. Don't 
come begging for mercy later.  After the battle he will become an Esper, 
should you win.

Next, in the Solitary Island Temple, the book will again burn down the door to 
enter.

Book: One is in an island shrine, protected by the wind.

Near the top of the temple, another tablet sits.  A monster appears.

I was wondering who it might be. Weaklings!  Hahaha. Stalker will take care of 
you!!  Once it is beaten, the tablet will be obtained.  The door to another 
area, the Fork Tower, has been opened.  Contained inside are the ultimate 
Black and White Magic spells.

Cara: There's something written on the tablet.

The Fork Tower. where the ultimate Black and White Magic Spells rest. If the 
two spells are not taken at the same time, the Tower will cause a large 
explosion.  They trade it for three more legendary weapons, though there is no 
conversation this time.  At the entrance to the fork tower they will have to 
split into two groups.

Cara: Unless we take the two spells at the same time, the tower will explode?

Butz: We'll split into two groups.

One by one they'll go their respective ways.  Both groups will eventually 
reach the top of their towers.

Right Tower: We need to take them at the same time.

Right Tower: Get ready. take the spell at the same time we do!

Left Tower: Ready!!

The right tower gets the Holy magic.

Left Tower: Get it quickly, before the tower explodes!

The left tower gets the Flare magic.

Cara: The tower's. disappearing!!

The tower vanishes from the world, leaving a metal plate behind.  This metal 
plate is actually the ancient building Cid and Mid hang around in.  Only Cid 
is there right now, and he's stuck in a machine!

Cid: I... I'm getting dizzy!

Mid enters.

Mid: Grandpa!  Are you all right?

Cid: Whew!  This is no time to act silly.  I found new technology in a book.  
Now I can make the airship go underwater!

Butz: Really!

Cid: Nothing is impossible to Cid.  Let's go Mid!

Mid: Let's go!!

Cid and Mid modify the airship at blazing speed.  On the deck Cara stands, Mid 
comes up to see her.

Mid: He's almost done.

Cara: He's such a hard worker.

Mid: Grandpa.  He thinks that this is all his fault.

Cara: But. he didn't cause the.

Mid: Yeah.  He knows that. So this time, he wants to make sure his skills will 
be used for peace.

Cid: I'm done!

Butz, Faris and Lenna enter the ship.

Cid: Press the A button and select the 'down' arrow when you want to go 
underwater.

Butz: Thank you, Cid, Mid!!

Cid: Butz. We can't wield swords. The only help we can give is to improve your 
machines.  But, I believe we've done all that we can.  The rest is up to you.

Butz: Let's go!

Lenna: So now we can go underwater?

Faris: And another tablet lies at the bottom.

Cara [to Mid]: Take care of your Grandpa.

Mid: Be sure to come back sometime!

Butz: Let's go!!

The sub goes underwater to the remains of Worus tower.  Butz will quickly 
realize he can't breath underwater.

Butz: Blurp, blurrp!  I can probably hold my breath. about 7 minutes.  

They will find the final crystal shard.  But someone is guarding it!

Gogo: The power of this Piece of Crystal is mine!  And I'm not giving it to 
anyone!  Go home!  [choose no]  Tsk, tsk, tsk. [Battle starts]  My name is 
Gogo!  The famous mimic.  The trick to mimicking is to imitate.  So I'll watch 
you and do what you do.  If you fight, I fight.  If you use magic, so will I!  
If you do what I do, you'll surely win!  [after a long, long time] I give up!  
That's the way!  I'm not doing anything, so you did nothing!  You copied me!  
Good job!  that is the art of the mimic!  You're graduates now!  Goodbye!!

Gogo exiles himself to the Cleft of Dimension.  Butz gets the final shard, 
Mimic.  in the Phoenix tower, on the 30th floor is a Hiryuu.

Lenna: Hiryuu!

Cara: Is that the Hiryuu that saved you, Lenna?

It roars and flies.

Lenna: What's it doing!?

Cara: He says he wants to help you, Lenna.

Lenna: Hiryuu!!

The Hiryuu jumps off the top of the tower and dies.

Cara: Lenna.  Hiryuu knew he did not have much longer to live.

Lenna: So when it saved me back at the forest.

Cara: It used the last of its life to come to this tower so it could be of 
help to Lenna.

Lenna: Hiryuu.

Lenna has a flashback to when her mother was very ill.

Lenna: You mean there isn't any way to help Mother?

King Tycoon: The doctors have done all they can.  They say the disease can 
only be cured with the tongue of a Hiryuu.

Lenna runs off.

King Tycoon: Lenna!  What in the world are you doing with that knife!?  You 
would never!

Lenna leaves.

King Tycoon: Wait!

Jenica: I'll go.

Lenna is on the roof with a Hiryuu, she plans to kill the Hiryuu to get its 
tongue.

Jenica: Princess Lenna!  If you kill that Hiryuu, they'll become extinct.  
And, your mother loved that dragon.  Even then, you would cut out it's tongue? 
[Choose yes or no, the story reflects no].  Your father has come here many 
times agonizing over this.  But, it's for the best.

Lenna: Ooh, sniffle, Mother.

Back to the present.

The Hiryuu transformed into Phoenix, and entrusted its power and its spirit to 
Lenna.

Lenna: Hiryuu.  Thank you.

On the top of the North Mountain, Bahamut is waiting as he said he would be.  
The King of Dragons challenges everyone.

Bahamut: You who opened the seal. Defeat me, and my power shall be yours!!

They receive Bahamut as an Esper.  They next stop in the Great Trench, where 
another tablet is rumored to be.  As usual the door is opened by a page of the 
book.

Book: One is in a place deeper than the floor of the sea, protected by flame.  
They find it.

Monster: Oink, Oink!  From Master Exdeath, Oink!

Monster 2: An order for me to, Oink!

Monster 3: KILL YOU! Oink!

Monster: Oink, oink, oink!

They will be defeated and the third tablet will be in Butz's hands.

Butz: There's something written on the tablet.

Tablet: A magic sealed in the river of magma.

The Ultimate Dimension Magic, Meteo, is learned.  Another three weapons are 
chosen from the Sealed Castle of Kuzar.  They reach the final area with tablet 
inside.  The book opens at the door as usual, opening the door too.

Book: And the last behind a waterfall, protected by water.

Before long, the final tablet will be in Butz's control.

Monster: That slab.  I can't let you have it.  When Master Exdeath gains the 
power of the Void, a world born of us monsters will be born!  You can't stand 
in our way!!

Leviathan comes out from the nearby waterfall and kills the monster!

Leviathan: My power of water.  The power that flows over all, cleanses all.  I 
will only give it to those with the power to fight the Void! 

They all battle, Leviathan joins as an Esper.  The final three Legendary 
weapons are unsealed in Kuzar Castle.  Over Tycoon Castle they fly the 
airship, the Void comes after it.

Cara: What's that!?

Lenna: The entrance to the Cleft of Dimension!

Faris: We're being sucked in!

Butz: We're going in!!

They enter the Cleft of Dimension.  This place takes various shapes of areas 
they have been to during the game.  The first area resembles a beach with sand 
rivers.  Eventually they will reach the front gates, so to speak.

Monsters: We are the monsters who have been sealed in the Cleft of Dimension 
for a millennium.  Exdeath will unleash the power of the Void and a world of 
monsters, a world of darkness will be born!  We can't let you stand in his 
way!  You will die here in the Cleft of Dimension, by the hand of our dark 
powers!  Hehehe.

The next area is in Ruins and the one after that in the town of Mirage.  
Notice that everything is frozen as Butz and company are now existing outside 
of time.  Next is a forest area, not unlike that of the Great Forest.  
Calofisteri will block the exit.

Calofisteri: Take a peaceful rest in the forest, FOREVER!

She attacks and is defeated.  The next area is a cave with many waterfalls.  
The area after it is a library.  There are some books to be read.

Book from 1000 years ago: They appeared from the sky, the one without a heart, 
Omega, and the one who followed it, Shinryuu, not even the heroes who hold the 
twelve weapons are a match for them.  It's best to let them rest quietly in 
the Cleft of Dimension.  Never try to speak of them!

Book from a wizard: The secret of Giga Flare, this magic leaves a moment of 
vulnerability during preparation!

The third book is another Monster, Apanda.

Apanda: You've made it this far, but your lives are already up!  They were 
gone the instant you flipped the dimensional switch in this book!!

The next section is floating towers, invisible paths connect them.  This is 
like nothing seen before in the game.  Inside of the towers area is an indoor 
castle. It looks similar to Exdeath's castle before the Illusions were 
removed.  Down below is a prison.  There are many people inside of it.  One is 
named Apocalypse.

Apocalypse: You are the warriors that hold the pieces of the Crystals? [Choose 
yes] I see.  Then, you'll die here!! 

Eventually Butz and company will have cleared out all of the monsters and just 
in time to be attacked by another boss, Catastrophe.  After he is beaten, some 
woman will come out of the cell he was in.

Woman: I was trapped in there.  Thank you so much for helping me!  You're so 
great, *smooch*

She runs off.  In the throne room of the castle, Butz is unable to go through 
a door.  The lady from just a moment ago comes up to him.

Halikarnassos: You took my kiss of death!

She turns into a hideous monster!

Halikarnassos: I'll play with you, I, the King of the Dimensional Castle, 
Halikarnassos will!

Having been beaten, the doorway opens up now.  It leads to the roof of the 
castle.  Another monster, Twin Tania awaits up there.  

Twin Tania: This is it.  Ahead of here lies the space where the Void is sealed 
and I won't let you enter!!

Twin Tania is defeated and a bridge meets the top of the castle.  It goes to a 
higher castle peak, which teleports everyone into the Cleft of Dimension in 
which Exdeath was earlier seen.  Standing not far away on another warp beacon 
is good ole Gilgamesh!

Gilgamesh: Another monster!  Butz!?  it's you isn't it!!  Why didn't you say 
so?  The monsters here are scary and I can't find my way out.  I'm about to 
cry.  By the way, how'd you get here?

Butz explains how they got here.

Gilgamesh: I see, now I can get home!  How'd you like to escape?

Butz: ...

Gilgamesh: Oh yeah, that's right.  

Butz: Well if we live, let's meet again.

Gilgamesh: I know we will.  At that time we'll be friends.  Later!

Gilgamesh leaves the battles and the Cleft of Dimension.  Near the end of the 
dungeon, a strange light glows.  Butz walks up to it.

Necrofobia: This light, I won't let you have it!  [Battle starts] With these 
four barriers, I am now invincible!  Can you defeat me? [Once the barriers are 
down] My invincible barrier!  Then I have no choice.  Have a taste of, my real 
power!!

Once he has been wounded, Gilgamesh will show up!

Necrofobia: Gilgamesh!!

Gilgamesh: Phew!  I made it!!  If I go home right now, I'll remain in history 
as a weakling!

Necrofobia: Heh.  Blabbermouth, I'll get rid of you first!

Necrofobia attacks Gilgamesh.  It almost always misses though.

Gilgamesh: You're pretty good! You can even defeat, the great Gilgamesh?!  

Gilgamesh turns around to fight Necrofobia.

Gilgamesh: Cara, your grandfather, he was a strong man!

Cara: Grandpa.

Gilgamesh: Faris, go fall in love!  Then you'd be more feminine!

Faris: ...

Necrofobia attacks Gilgamesh again.

Gilgamesh: Lenna, never forget you love for animals.

Lenna: ...

Gilgamesh: Butz, I would have like to have a one on one battle with you!  You 
were such good friends.

Necrofobia: Gilgamesh, DIE!

Necrofobia casts flare at Gilgamesh.

Gilgamesh: That's my line!

Gilgamesh casts 'exploder' on Necrofobia, they both die.  Further up the area 
is Exdeath.

Exdeath: You're late!  Fwahaha.  I finally have it!!  The ultimate power!  
Power that will rule the world!  The power of the Void!

He teleports up and turns himself into a giant tree.

Exdeath: I'm going to destroy you fools!  First, your friends!!  Watch as 
they're sucked into the Void and disappear forever!  

Virtually every place left on the earth is sucked into the Void.  The Pirates, 
Cid and Mid and many others.

Butz: Stop!

Exdeath: Fwa, ha, ha.  Now, why don't you disappear into the Void too?

Exdeath summons Void on Butz and the party.  They fall into it!  Dorgan runs 
past Butz.

Dorgan: Butz!  Stand up!!

Butz: Dad!!

Zeza and Kelgar appear floating in space next to Dorgan.

Butz: Zeza!  Kelgar!!

Galuf appears as well.

Cara: Grandpa!  

Butz: Galuf!!

Galuf: Presenting, the Four Warriors of Dawn! Butz, Lenna, Faris, Cara.  While 
we hold back the power of the Void, defeat him!  Only you, the Warriors of the 
Crystal can save the world from the power of darkness now, go!

They all vanish, Butz and crew are placed back in front of Exdeath.

Exdeath: Why did the power of the Void disappear!?  Aaaaagh!! Take this!!

He tries to recast Void, but King Tycoon shows up!

Lenna: Father!

Faris: Father!

Galuf, Zeza, Dorgan and Kelgar show up again.

Galuf: Come on!

Kelgar: Now is the time!

Zeza: Defeat...

Dorgan: ...Exdeath!!

Four Warriors of Dawn: Go!  Warriors of the Crystal!

They all vanish again, Butz and his party attack Exdeath.

Butz: Exdeath!  This is it!!!

After being beaten badly, Exdeath loses control of Void.  The Void begins to 
devour him.

Exdeath: WHY?  I had the power of Void!  What is Void?  Arrrgh! 

Exdeath is devoured.  But it isn't over yet!

Neo-Exdeath: I am Neo-Exdeath!  I shall erase all memory, all existence, all 
dimensions.  Then I too, shall disappear for, eternity!

The battle ensues.  Butz and his friends are victorious.  Neo-Exdeath slowly 
fades away into the background.  Nothing but stars are seen.  They display 
text. It says:

In the beginning, there was Void.  Then four Spirits came.  Together in this 
Void, the Crystals were born and the world was created.

Thus, Hope gives Earth blessings, Courage lights the flame, Kindness makes 
water the source of life and pursuit lets wisdom ride the wind.

When the day comes that Void shall again envelop the world.  If within people 
live the four spirits, Light shall again be born.

Four Spirits, wandering through Void shall once again, give birth to light.

Butz, Lenna, Faris and Cara are transported around with nothing but stars 
behind them.  Butz wakes up Cara and they wake up Lenna and Faris.

Butz: The Void hasn't disappeared.

Cara: Even though we've defeated Exdeath?

Lenna and Faris make their way up by Cara and Butz.

Lenna: Is it because the Crystals are gone?

Faris: Is the world going to be enveloped by the Void?

Cara begins to flash and a shooting star like object pushes her upward.  Three 
Crystal shards come out of her and fly even higher.

Hope gives the Earth blessings.

Faris flies up even higher and three Crystal shards come out of her.

Courage lights the flame.

Lenna flies up higher still, giving off three Crystal shards as well.

Kindness makes water the source of life.

Butz flies up the highest of all, giving off three final Crystal shards.  

Pursuit lets wisdom ride the wind.

The shards gather at various places around the world.  In the Pyramid, Istory 
Falls, and the Great Trench, forming full sized crystals.  All of the Void 
across the world slowly begins to recede as well, from: Lix, Tycoon and the 
Ancient Library.

Butz: The world, is being reborn.

Lenna: The Crystals too.

Butz: There was still some power left in the Pieces of Crystal.

Cara: I'm so glad.

Butz: It's because of Lenna, Faris and Cara.  It's because you protected the 
Crystals so well.

Lenna: Butz.  You too.

Cara: And Grandpa.

Lenna: And now the wind will return to Tycoon.

King Tycoon: Yes.

King Tycoon, Dorgan, Kelgar, Zeza, and Galuf appear in the stars nearby Butz, 
Lenna, Faris and Cara.

Butz: Father.

Cara: Grandpa.

Lenna: Father.

Faris: Father.

Butz: And Kelgar and Zeza too.

King Tycoon: The world still needs you!

Galuf: It's still too early for you to come where we are!

Dorgan: You have done well.  Now, back to your world!

The five of them vanish off into space.

A Hiryuu flies down, in space nonetheless.  The party climbs on to it.  
Crystal shards continue to make full sized Crystals.  

Mid: Grandpa!

The scene shifts to Cid and Mid in their Ancient research facility.

Mid: A letter's arrived!

Mid places it on the table, Cid looks at it.  It reads:

Cid, Mid, how are you?  It's Cara.  It looks like we were saved.

Still reading from the letter, the scene shifts to a Hiryuu dropping Butz, 
Lenna, Faris and Cara off at Bal Castle.

Somehow, now it feels like that battle was all a dream.

The scene continues to move around the world in various towns and castles, but 
we're still reading the letter.

Since then I've traveled around various towns.  Things have returned to how 
they were before, it's so peaceful.

Scene shifts to Lenna and Faris on their thrones.

The Chancellor of Tycoon is in good spirits.  But Faris seems worried about 
the pirates.

Faris gets back into her pirate suit and jumps out of a castle window.  Cara 
is on Bal Castle with a Moogle and Hiryuu.

Castle Bal is having problems that there's no one to succeed the throne.  
Maybe I'll be queen?  That doesn't sound too bad.  

Butz is near his parents gravestone.

Butz is in his hometown village now.  Until he leaves on a journey again, 
he'll be with his mother and father.

In the pirate base, Coco gives birth to some baby chocobos.

Oh by the way, Boco and Coco have had children!  They're so cute, you should 
come meet them!

Cara and a Hiryuu are on the North Cliff.

It's been one year since then.  Lenna and Faris are busy with everything at 
their castle and Butz has left on another journey.  So I think I'll go to that 
place.  Where Grandpa sleeps.  To that place.

The scene is back with Cid and Mid, still reading the letter.

If the others come asking you guys about me.  No, I'm sure they'll come.  
Please tell them that I wanted to see them again.

They have finished reading it.

Cid: Cara, you did swell.  You all did swell.

There are flashbacks of scenes in the game; Butz attacking Exdeath in Guido’s 
lair, Butz kicking Kelgar during their fight, and Butz watching Faris sleep in 
the inn of Tule. 

Flashbacks of Lenna come next.  When she is hit by the poison arrow on the 
North Cliff, when she walks through poison to get the Hiryuu plant and her on 
the Tycoon Castle balcony with Faris.

Next are scenes of Faris.  The first time Butz sees her in Princess attire, 
when Syldra dies, and when Butz and Galuf reveal her secret.

Cara's scenes are receiving Galuf's abilities at the Master Tree, having a 
little tussle with Butz in front of Tycoon Castle and her grand entrance in 
the doomed attempt to stop the shattering of the Earth Crystal.

The scene goes back to Cid and Mid's place and pans to the sky.  It focuses on 
the Ancient library and heads west to the Master Tree.  Cara is there, she 
brings flowers to it.

Cara: If at that moment.  If Grandpa had not saved me.  The earth, wind, fire 
and water are all alive and the world has returned to peace.  But, I'm still a 
bit sad.  I'm sure now.  It's because Grandpa is gone and I've been left all 
by myself.

Scenes of Galuf appear.  When he fell into a different room as everyone else, 
hit assault on the Big Bridge, his finest moment saving Cara and battling 
against Exdeath and finally, his death.

Cara: See you, Grandpa.

Butz: You aren't alone.

Butz, Lenna and Faris are standing on the Master Tree, how long have they been 
watching anyway?

Lenna: We're here, aren't we?

Faris: Be happy!

Cara: Everyone!  You've come!

Butz: Of course.  How could we forget about a friend we fought together with?

Cara: Everyone.

Lenna: Tears don't suit you.  Cara, you need to be strong!

Faris: Galuf's gonna laugh at you!

Some doves fly over and deposit a field of flowers in front of the Master Tree.

Cara: Sniffle.  Hehe, you're right.  Grandpa is laughing at me.  The Crystals 
have regained their power.  Now we must protect it.

Butz: Just like Dad and the rest had protected them.

Lenna: Hey, don't you hear something?

Faris: Yeah, I hear it!

Cara: Grandpa's voice?

Butz: No.  The rustling of the trees?

Lenna: The murmur of the Water?

Faris: The flaring of Fire?

Cara: The whisper of the Earth?

Butz: I don't know.  I don't know, but.

Faris: I can hear it.

Lenna: Yes, something warm.  Let's go!

They leave the area, but quickly come back!  Butz, Faris and Lenna are on 
Chocobos and Cara is on a Hiryuu!

The Credits roll scrolling over the world.  Forests, grasses, rivers.  The 
world looks so beautiful now.  The chocobos can be seen running and the Hiryuu 
swoops over them.  

When it is all done, it will focus on Cara, Faris, Lenna and Butz, showing 
their Level, Job, HP, MP and EXP along with all of the learned abilities and a 
numeric total of them. 

All four of them will be standing in the stars and fade away and the magic 
words roll in.  

THE END