**********************
* FINAL FANTASY      *
* CRYSTAL CHRONICLES *
* MY LIFE AS A KING  *
**********************
* FAQ/Walkthrough    *
**********************

Version 1.0
Jake Alley



Contents:

Sec01   Frequently Asked Questions
Sec02   Downloadable Extras
Sec03   Town Building
Sec04   Your Daily Ritual (Or All About Morale)
Sec05   Crazy Voodoo AI Tricks




Sec01   Frequently Asked Questions

Q: When do I actually get to form parties?
   A: Once you get the ability to make a tavern.

Q: How do I get access to the first tavern? This boss WON'T DIE!
   A: The boss in question is immune to physical damage. You need to send in a
   decent level black mage to kill it. It might help to send a fighter or 3 in
   minute or so before the black mage to clear a path through the monsters.

Q: What's the story with these shop materials bequests?
   A: As you upgrade things in shops, periodically you hit a wall where you
   need to post a bequest to get new materials. Once you hit one, click around
   the map for a completed area with the new behest listed. It won't show up if
   you haven't fully explored the area (but will be mentioned in the notes).
   There's generally more than one such bequest, they have to be unlocked in
   order. The boss' level is tied to the item level, not the area level, but
   your adventurers don't take that into account, so completing these can be
   tricky. Crazy voodoo AI tricks help.

Q: What's with this "shape changing" dungeon?
   A: If you get a high enough percentage of it explored in a single day, it
   quits shifting around, allowing you to tackle it normally. Highly trained
   thieves help, sending in as many people as you can helps, luck is still a
   huge factor.

Q: Can I rearrange things later?
   A: Yes. Once you can make Black Mage Academies, you get the ability to
   remove buildings from the map. Stand at the enterence and summon Chime to
   mark them for demolition. The next morning, the building will be gone, you'll
   get the building cost back, and as soon as you rebuild it, it will be just
   like you left it. Oh, and for what it's worth, demolishing houses has no
   effect on your active adventurers. They'll live inside the castle in the
   short term, and move back into the next house of any size you build.

Q: How many of everything can I eventually build?
   A: If we're talking about your first time through the game, with no extra
   downloads, you can, by the end, build a total of:
      - 30 houses total (either small or spacious)
      - 2 Bakeries
      - 1 Emporium
      - 1 of each shop (Weapon, Armor, Item)
      - 1 of each training building (Warrior, Thief, White Mage, Black Mage)
      - 2 Taverns
      - 1 Guild Hall
      - 2 Fountain Parks
      - 1 Bulletin Park
   This allows you to have:
      - 16 max adventurers
      - 2 fixed parties
      - 2 bequests posted per day
      - 4 max morale spheres
      - the 2nd best level of kingdom development
   Playing on hard or very hard (available after winning once), you gain the
   ability to make an extra:
      - 10 houses (40 total)
      - 1 Bakery (3 total, giving the 5th morale sphere and best level of
         development)
      - 1 of each shop (Weapon, Armor, Item)
      - 1 of each training building except Training Hall




Sec02   Downloadable Extras

There are a variety of additional features that can be added to the game by
paying for downloadable extras. This guide will not be mentioning them for
several reasons.

1- Plenty of other people can tell you everything you want to know and more
   about each download as it is released, so I'd just as soon not constantly be
   updating this guide.
2- The same basic strategies still apply.
3- Personally, I'm not a fan of the whole practice of squeezing as much money
   from people as possible with things like this.
4 (And this is the most important one)- Thus far, none of them are honestly
worth using. We have an extra large house, which while possibly nice for
maximizing cash flow on normal mode just for the sake of doing so, is terribly
inefficient for difficulties where that much money is actually useful. We have
even more training buildings which add a wider variety of skills, but there's
no way you can actually make use of all of them and not have your adventurers
wasting half the day in town. Then of course we have the extra races, which
while cosmetically would be a nice change of pace, and save you the hassle of
getting everyone into the right class, aren't going to seem all that efficient
when compared to the characters you've already built up by the time you unlock
the ability to use them.




Sec03   Town Building

Laying out the various buildings in your town is one of the least time
consuming, but by far most important aspects of the game. An inefficient layout
won't have a really noticeable effect until about halfway through the game, but
if you're careless, eventually you're going to wish you'd put more thought into
it as you begin rebuilding your whole city to get people to stop taking until
sundown to actually head out and explore.

There's two basic things we need to worry about when planning out where to put
each building. First, there's dealing with where everything is going to fit.
Buildings come in four different sizes, taking up 1, 2, 4, or 6 spaces. There's
only 13 places on the map where one of the largest buildings can be placed,
you'll fill 4 of those on normal, 6 on hard. There's only 7 places you can fit
a 4 space building without using part of one of those lots, we need 5 on
normal, 8 on hard. There's a fair bit of leeway in both cases, but since we're
going to be wanting to keep the more important buildings clustered together,
you're going to want to reserve as many of the big open lots on the north side
of town for shops and training buildings.

The second major concern is adventurer travel time. The daily routine of your
adventurers goes like this (skipping anything which hasn't been built
entirely):
- Wake up in their house, head to a random fountain park for a bit of morning
  relaxation.
- Head to the behest posting that most interests them, and wait for your
  approval.
- Go shopping, compulsively visiting every adventurer shop and their training
  building, in a random order.
- Head to the tavern to form a party.
- Leave out the appropriate gate to reach their goal for the day.
- Return through that same gate, and head to the castle for their wages.

The major efficiency issue, generally speaking, comes from the shopping step of
this process. Assuming you're building everything, that's 4 buildings any given
character is going to run around between. If you have, say, the weapon and
armor shops right by the bequest boards, and the item shop and training
buildings clumped together elsewhere, it's quite possible that at least one
adventurer will cut across the entire city four whole times because they don't
want to look at swords until they're set on potions. It's also possible for
someone to decide to run over to the fountain park you stuck down in the corner
instead of the one right near their house.

The solution, therefore, is to put your bulletin park right by your initial
bequest post, keep the shops as close to the two as you can manage, and
generally ring the whole shopping district with training buildings. When
playing on hard, you have the added headache to contend with that you get extra
versions of these buildings to deal with. The same basic logic still applies
though. Keep all the 4 space shops in a tight clump, stick the 2 black mage
buildings near each other, etc.

It's generally a good idea to use the leftover space in the area to place
fountain parks (if you're planning to bother with them), and taverns. Hitting
the tavern is the last thing people do before heading out, so you might be
tempted to place them by the 3 exits. There's no guarantee that they'll head to
the one by the exit they plan to take though, so it's much more efficient to
place them close to the stores.

Everything else is going to be a low priority you're encouraged to stick off in
the boonies down south. This means you'll have a few adventurers taking a long
trip to the behest postings, but it's nothing compared to shopping time, since
it can only happen once a day. If you really want to be extra efficient, make
sure the leaders of the permanent parties you set up in your taverns live in
single space housing by the bequest boards. Say, the lot adjacent to the first
board, and the house built automatically at the start of the game. The leaders
will be ready to take their orders right away, and the rest of their party
members get to skip this step entirely.

Now for a more in-depth look at all the things we'll be building.

Houses: (Building limit goes by total houses, ultimate cap of 30 on normal, 40
        on hard)
   Small House   1 Space    100 El   Potential Adventurer +1 NPC, +10 Gil/Day
 * Large House   1 Space    250 El   Potential Adventurer +2 NPC, +20 Gil/Day
Spacious House   2 Spaces   300 El   Potential Adventurer +3 NPC, +30 Gil/Day

Housing Placement Tips:
On normal mode, you are eventually going to want to eventually replace all
small houses with spacious ones. On hard, you will eventually want 20 spacious
houses, 20 large. In either case, it's generally a good idea to place your
first few houses in northern lots with odd numbers of spaces for easy access,
but once you're just filling up all the space you can, concentrate on the
southeastern section of town (by the lookout tower). It keeps them out of the
way of higher priority buildings, and on hard mode allows for amazing morale
farming with the final development upgrade.

Citizen Shops: (1 Emporium, 2 Normal Bakeries +1 Hard Bakery)
        Bakery   2 Spaces   200 El   +1 Morale Sphere, passive morale boost
      Emporium   6 Spaces   600 El   +2 Morale Sphere, passive morale boost,
                               adds shields/daggers/torches shop inventories

Citizen Shop Placement Tips:
Adventurers don't touch these buildings, but the NPCs living in your various
houses like to periodically pop into them if they're nearby, giving you a
slight morale gauge boost each time. Therefore, you want to surround them with
as many houses as you can manage.

Adventurer Shops: (1 each Normal, +1 each Hard)
   Weapon Shop   4 Spaces   200 El   Sells weapons to adventurers
    Armor Shop   4 Spaces   350 El   Sells armor to adventurers
     Item Shop   4 Spaces   300 El   Sells potions and torches to adventurers

Adventurer Shop Placement Tips:
As previously stated, cram these as close to your behest boards as you can. On
hard mode, if you want to completely fill in the town, one will need to go down
in the 10 space lot just south of the crystal. It's one of two lots that will
leave unusable space without a 4 space building on them, the other can hold the
guild.

Adventurer Training: (1 each Normal, +1 all but Training Hall Hard)
 White Mage T.   6 Spaces   500 El   Switch to and get spells for White Mages
 Black Mage A.   6 Spaces   500 El   Switch to and get spells for Black Mages
 Training Hall   6 Spaces   450 El   Warrior stuff, can "Gain EXP" risk free
   Gaming Hall   2 Spaces   350 El   Thief stuff, adventurers can get free gil

Adventurer Training Placement Tips:
These are essentially more shops. Only one will generally be hit by a given
character, since they're class specific. Those not on behests might visit the
Gaming and Training Halls for their alternate uses, but efficiency isn't a
concern there, so don't worry.

Special: (2 Taverns, 1 Guild Hall, 1 Inn)
        Tavern   2 Spaces   500 El   Sells weapons to adventurers
    Guild Hall   4 Spaces   300 El   Sells armor to adventurers
           Inn   2 Spaces   400 El   Sells potions and torches to adventurers

Special Placement Tips:
Taverns are the last place adventurers visit before leaving town, after
shopping. Keeping them near the shops is extremely important. It also helps to
keep them where you can generally keep an eye on them, if you're inclined to
give everyone stat boosts on their way out of town. The Inn is essentially a
house for visiting, randomized, extra adventurers, and should thus go with your
other houses (but not near citizen shops). The Guild Hall is a building only
you personally ever visit, and thus can (and should) be crammed in the far
southeast corner to fill the awkward lot shape, stay out of the way, and be
visited while chatting with the citizenry.

Parks: (2 Fountain, 1 Bulletin)
      Fountain   2 Spaces   200 El   Chance of recovering adventurer morale
      Bulletin   4 Spaces   150 El   Allows extra behest posting

Park Placement Tips:
You are going to want to keep your Bulletin Park right by the original behest
board for reasons that should be obvious. Fountain parks should be in the same
area as well, both for optimal adventurer pathing, and so you can clean out any
demoralized adventurers who end up loitering while you assign everyone's tasks.

There should be an image found in the same location of this guide with a
suggested layout of a hard mode town. While not necessarily the most efficient
possible, it has been proven to keep shopping time short enough not to cause
problems, citizen visitation easy to manage, and evenly fills out the map. On
normal, you have much more space than you need, and can therefore fit
everything important in the northern portion of town, leaving the rest free for
your 30 spacious houses.




Sec04   Your Daily Ritual (Or All About Morale)

Every day starts off with a review of the previous, and new behest posting. As
a general rule of thumb, you want to clean out areas in ascending order of
level. If you have a level 8 area and a level 9 area, hit the level 8 first
even if you think you can handle it. There are generally extra incentives to
going in order (dungeons assuming you'll have access to certain types of
equipment for instance), and of particular concern, the boss of the dungeon
containing the first available tavern absolutely requires a black mage to kill
the boss, which you will unlock right before it sticking to sequence.

Next, it's time to actually make sure everyone hits these. Adventurers
generally line up to receive orders for the day fast enough that you should
wait before doing anything else, but you can usually squeeze in a quick
building or shop visit as they line up. We'll discuss some of the finer points
of dispensing adventurers in the next section, but it should be noted that each
dungeon only has so many monsters to be found in a given day. Send everyone to
the same place, and most will miss out on experience. On the other hand, send
two people to kill the same boss, and one might clear out the monsters so the
other can reach it at full HP.

With the adventurers on their way, it's time to start hitting the shops and
summoning new buildings. Gil, generally, is a non-issue, and really, elementite
flows in pretty reliably too. If you know you're getting a new building type
the next day, you might want to save 200 El or so to make sure you can build it
right away, otherwise, spend it when you can. For shop upgrades, I suggest the
following priorities. First, get everything up to level 10 or 15, then hit the
Guild Hall to crank the adventurer cap up to 8 (and hire the newbies,
obviously), then max out the adventurer pay rank (for them, gil IS a concern,
and this doesn't cut into your daily income beyond the one time costs). After
that, max out the adventurer cap (and hire up to the full 16), then just keep
investing in all the shops and training buildings, keeping everything at
roughly the same level. You should be able to maintain an absurd lead on what
the adventurers are actually capable of buying no matter what.

That out of the way, it's time to set in on the daily morale grind. First, we
need a bakery. On your second or third day, you should see someone standing
around by the fountain talking about bakeries. Follow up on that, you'll end up
getting a sketch from a moogle. Build one ASAP and you get access to the morale
gauge.

The morale gauge increases from talking to people. Either citizens with a green
smile over their heads, or adventurers on their way out of town, or back for
their daily pay. It also increases when citizens talk amongst themselves, or
visit a citizen shop. Each time it fills, you get an extra bonus to the day's
Gil income, and you get a morale sphere if there's an open slot for one. Each
bakery adds a slot, the emporium adds two. These spheres have two uses. First,
you can take them to the castle, and cash them in with Chime to work towards
developing your city as a whole. The perks for doing so are as follows:

1st upgrade: May build first fountain park
2nd upgrade: May build spacious houses (very useful)
3rd upgrade: May declare holidays (see below)
4th upgrade: May have Pavlov talk to people, and access morale boosting fetch
             quests.
5th upgrade: May address people from tower (makes all citizens come out willing
             to talk, not possible on normal).

The first two upgrades are particularly handy, and quite easy to get, just by
talking to every adventurer on their way out and back from behests. Once you
have a nice flow of morale coming in though (or you just have time to kill
during the huge lull between the second and third upgrades), it's time to shift
your focus to the second, and more important use. Morale boosting.

Every day, once this becomes feasible, summon chime before talking to your
first citizen, and spend a sphere on the morale boost option. Your morale gauge
will be replaced by a gradually depleting red bar (the original gauge will
continue to fill as normal, it's just hidden). While this bar is up, you have
two very useful abilities. First, talking to an adventurer will give them a
minor stat boost for the day. Second, talking to a normal citizen will increase
their household's happiness meter (which can be checked by visiting their
house). This in turn has two very handy effects.

First, when a meter fills, you can visit the house when the official owner is
home to receive a random medal that can later be given to an adventurer after
they kill a boss. Second, and much more importantly, that house will start
leaving the lights on at night. The more houses that do this, the longer your
period of activity becomes each day. Talking to everyone you can find with a
morale boost active every day will eventually get you to the point where your
days are two or three times their original length. This gives you enough time
to talk to citizens (and they seem to become more talkative the later it gets),
recovering the morale sphere you spent and then some, and rolling over the
morale gauge another few times, leading to a bigger gil bonus. It also ensures
you'll still be awake when your adventurers return, letting you console the
unsuccessful ones, and potentially eliminate their resulting bad moods.

How important any of this is is debatable. The only real benefit is that you
will end up with more gil than you know what to do with, and more medals than
you could possibly ever award. Once you're at the point where your adventurers'
levels are in the mid-20s, and there's level 70 equipment gathering dust on
store shelves, you might want to give it a rest and just go to bed early after
sending everyone off and building up the town.

The only catch to constantly operating in morale boost mode is that it prevents
you from entering (or staying in) hyper morale mode. Any time an adventurer
kills a boss, and you aren't in morale boost mode, your moral bar will begin
glowing, and all gains to it are doubled. If you want to have your cake and eat
it too, time your boosts on days you expect bosses to die so that they will
expire just after everyone leaves town.

After your third development upgrade, you gain the ability to declare holidays
(as a behest in town). This an ability you are never going to want to actually
use. All it does is put you in hyper morale mode for the entire day, which you
can do on your own almost every day to begin with. It also costs a decent sized
chunk of gil to do this, which is going to completely offset the extra cash it
would bring in. Finally, it totally decommissions your adventurers for the day.
Not only will they not take on behests, they won't gain experience on their
own, or shop, or do anything but sit around at home. Now, you might be
thinking, this would still be marginally useful as a way to pass the time if,
say, every single adventurer is wiped out, and is going to spend a day resting
anyway. Horrifyingly enough, even that doesn't work. They won't recover at all
during the holiday, and end up taking the next day off on top of the day you're
wasting declaring it. You'd be much better off just declaring no behests for
the day. Everyone who needs it rests up, everyone who doesn't levels without
being told to (or gambles for extra gil), you end up with about the same gil
intake for the day, and don't have to take a day off from the upkeep of
everyone's happiness meters.

Eventually, your day of morale farming comes to an end, and it's time for a new
set of reports. When things go badly, it sometimes helps to click each point to
reveal more info (up to a complete round by round account of every battle
fought). Otherwise, lather, rinse, repeat until the game is won.




Sec05   Crazy Voodoo AI Tricks

Let's face it. The AI of your adventurers is awful. This, really, is essential
to the game's being any fun. If they always did what you wanted, things would
just get boring. Sometimes though, they seem to be really dead set against what
you want them to do. Here's a few tricks which have a more or less proven link
to better behavior.

First and foremost of course is having an efficient town layout. We've
discussed this enough I think.

Next, keep them happy. Maxing out the pay rank, talking to everyone twice a
day, and not sending people on suicide runs will generally keep everyone from
deciding to pass on behests.

Always set up an obvious high level and low level behest. Each posting will
attract at most half your available pool of adventurers, or have more than 5
adventurers gathered around it. Specified parties count as 4 people for the
first of these limits but only one for the second. More importantly, they will
always consider one posting to be for higher level people, and the other for
lower, and cluster accordingly as best they can.

If you have 8 people around level 20, and 8 people around level 10, and behests
for areas with those levels, great. If you have behests in 2 level 20 areas,
the level 20 people are all going to pick the one and clump around it, the
other will just attract level 10 folks with a death wish.

Behests in town (changing levels, info gathering) are wildcards in this system.
Post one, and a more standard one, they'll decide if the dungeon one is high or
low, and send the other half of the population to the other one. This just
plain sucks for class changes, since you generally want those spread out over a
wide range of levels. The best solution is to either do a high level batch and
a low level batch on two different days, or declare two in-town behests and
leave it up to luck.

If they're being really stubborn about something, reset it and switch which
board has which posting. It seems to help break ties in the AI's calls, with
the original board taking the higher priority.

The parties adventurers form on their own go by when they enter the pub mainly.
If you want people to clump up, approve their behests all at once. If you want
a lot of soloing, spread them out between shop visits.

Finally, as mentioned earlier, adventurers in the same dungeon step on each
other's toes in terms of EXP gains. Left to their own devices, all your level 4
characters will hit the same dungeon for EXP, and thus not really get any. Gain
EXP behests help spread people out, not hiring multiple people the same day
helps more.




This concludes this guide. If you're wondering about anything I haven't
covered, just keep playing until the game explains it to you. It's very linear,
and you can't really miss anything important.

If you'd like to contact me about this guide, you can find my e-mail address on
my webpage- http://www.kekkai.org/google/