FINAL FANTASY CRYSTAL CHRONICLES: MY LIFE AS A KING

Upgrade Material Guide v1.0
by Ludovico

Contents

1. Intro
2. Important Information
3. Understanding the List
4. Upgrade Material List
5. Contact Information


1. Intro
In the world of Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: My Life as a King, you play 
the ruler of a small kingdom, beseiged by monsters.  Being too valuable to 
endanger yourself fighting the fiendish hordes, you commission adventurers and 
send them out to fight your battles for you.  Your adventurers count on you to 
build them homes to live in and provide them with weapons, armor and training.  
You do so by building them shops and training halls, and spending your taxes on 
research to upgrade the shops.

Along the way, many of your shopkeeps and trainers will hit a wall, and will 
need stronger, better materials and more powerful magics and ingredients to 
upgrade their wares.  They ask you to send your adventurers hunting for these 
materials.  This guide is a list of those materials, where they can be found, 
and what your adventurers can expect to face when they get there.

Although it pretty much goes without saying, this guide is my intellectual 
property with all the hollow, toothless legal and ethical ramifications that 
come with that.  If you want to swipe it, I can't stop you, but I'd appreciate 
if you'd let me know.


2. Important Information

There are a handful of little quirks that are going to make your life as a king 
a little difficult, and getting your hands on upgrade materials is one of them. 
Not unlike a Seinfeldian Soup Nazi, the game expects you to follow a very rigid 
and specific set of instructions before it will let you get your hands on the 
materials you crave.

First, you need to upgrade whatever it is you're trying to upgrade to a certain 
level.  For the purpose of demonstration, I'll explain using the commonly first 
upgrade, level 15 Sword Metal.  In order for the behest to appear, you must 
first spend the money to research Swords to level 15.  At that point, no 
further upgrades will be allowed and the shopkeep will tell you he needs better 
materials to do so.

Second, you must leave the store and re-enter it.  The shopkeep will tell you 
he needs more materials to upgrade Swords, and would you please post a behest 
for your adventurers to get him some Sword Metal.  You can do this right away, 
you can wait a week and a half, it doesn't matter, but the option for the 
behest won't occur until the shopkeep has asked you for it.

Third, you must locate the Sword Metal.  For the most part, the material you'll 
need for the first upgrade is located in the dungeon where you unlocked the 
thing you're trying to upgrade.  The first Sword Metal is in Kubito Grotto, 
where you unlocked the first weapon shop, the first Fire Magicite is in Primone 
Darkwood, where you unlocked your first Black Mage Academy, etc. (this doesn't 
apply to Axe Metal, Gauntlet Plating and Revival Runes, because they're 
accessed via Downloadable Content).  After that, the materials are randomly 
scattered around the world (which is why I made this guide).  In order to 
locate the necessary material, you must have the dungeon fully explored.  In 
the case of the first Sword Metal upgrade, you'll need to have Kubito Grotto 
fully explored, something you've probably already accomplished.  Then, the 
behest will appear there, much like a boss behest, with a star next to it, 
reading "Obtain Sword Metal."

Finally, you must defeat the boss defending the material.  The boss defending 
any material is always going to be highlighted in purple in the dungeon 
information, just above the boss of the dungeon.  This can be a bit trickier 
than it looks because, while the dungeon retains its normal level, the boss 
defending the material will be the SAME LEVEL AS THE MATERIAL YOU'RE LOOKING 
FOR.  So, for instance, while Kubito Grotto and the monsters inside it will 
remain level 2 (a breeze for any adventurer), the Ice Goblin that is defending 
the level 15 Sword Metal will be level 15.  The same goes for the Bavarois 
defending the level 20 Armor Plating and the Killer Bee (and his pal) defending 
the level 15 Fire Magicite.

It is also important to point out that, while everything else in the world 
changes when you start a new game+ on hard or very hard difficulty, the
material gathering quests will never change in level or difficulty.


3. Understanding the List

The list will be laid out as follows:

MATERIAL TYPE
Level:    RESEARCH LEVEL REQUIRED TO UNLOCK
Location: LOCATION OF MATERIAL
Boss:     BOSS GUARDING THE MATERIAL
* - ANY ADDITIONAL USEFUL INFORMATION


4. Upgrade Material List

SWORD MATERIAL
Level:    15
Location: Kubito Grotto
Boss:     Ice Goblin

Level:    40
Location: Brenkith Crossroads
Boss:     Lizardman +3

Level:    70
Location: Carcus Southway
Boss:     Salamander +4

HAMMER METAL*
Level:    30
Location: Ogre Camp
Boss:     Ogre Basher +2

Level:    50
Location: Ramva Riverbank
Boss:     Gigantoad +3

Level:    80
Location: Denthe Bridge
Boss:     Gigas +4

* - If you have purchased the Dungeon Pack Downloadable Content, you can reach 
the Ogre Camp on normal difficulty.  Otherwise, Hammer Metal can only be 
obtained on hard or very hard difficulty.

AXE METAL*
Level:    45
Location: Cortek Sandhollows
Boss:     Stone Sahagin +3

Level:    80
Location: Desert City of Clavis
Boss:     Gigas +2

* - Axe Metal is only available if you have purchased the Dungeon Pack 
Downloadable Content.

ARMOR PLATING
Level:    20
Location: Junun Dei Meadows
Boss:     Bavarois*
* - Bavarois is immune to physical attacks.  You must use a black mage to kill 
it.

Level:    40
Location: Polpous Mistmoor
Boss:     Mu +3

Level:    70
Location: Janktra Plains
Boss:     Golem +4

HELM PLATING*
Level:    30
Location: Diaphi Riverway
Boss:     Bavarois**
** - Bavarois is immune to physical attacks.  You must use a black mage to kill 
it.

Level:    50
Location: Garrit Dryway
Boss:     Lava Mu +3

Level:    80
Location: Fronze Cove
Boss:     Golem +3

* - Helm Plating is only available on hard and very hard difficulty.

GAUNTLET PLATING*
Level:    35
Location: Barbair Abyss
Boss:     Ghost +3

Level:    70
Location: Langooth Peak
Boss:     Malboro +4

* - Gauntlet Plating is only available if you have purchased the Dungeon Pack 
Downloadable Content.

POTION INGREDIENTS
Level:    20
Location: Dolsam Gulch
Boss:     Worm

Level:    40
Location: Clannit Mirrorlake
Boss:     Bavarois +4*
* - Bavarois is immune to physical attacks.  You must use a black mage to kill 
it.

Level:    70
Location:  Nefron Beach
Boss:     Lizardman +4

ANTIDOTE INGREDIENTS*
Level:    25
Location: Kutith Basin
Boss:     Stone Worm

Level:    45
Location: Orc Keep
Boss:     Orc +3

Level:    80
Location: Quavitas Crag
Boss:     Sahagin Lord +4

* - Antidote Ingredients are only available in hard or very hard difficulty.

REVIVAL RUNES*
Level:    40
Location: Altenica Hills
Boss:     Lava Mu +3

Level:    65
Location: Tunika Mountains
Boss:     Salamander +4

* - Revival Runes are only available if you have purchased the Dungeon Pack 
Downloadable Content.

RESTORATION MAGICITE
Level:    20
Location: Panclare Brightwood
Boss:     Orc Warlock +2

Level:    45
Location: Auris Swordpath
Boss:     Bavarois +4*
* - Bavarois is immune to physical attacks.  You must use a black mage to kill 
it.

Level:    70
Location: Letyna Tundra
Boss:     Cerberus +4

ENHANCING MAGICITE*
Level:    25
Location: Vena Eih Marsh
Boss:     Orc Warlock +2

Level:    45
Location: Lost Cityof Nevul
Boss:     Chimera +4

Level:    80
Location: Orth Bridge
Boss:     Gigantoad +3

* - Enhancing Magicite is only available on hard or very hard difficulty.

FIRE MAGICITE
Level:    15
Location: Primone Darkwood
Boss:     Killer Bee +2

Level:    45
Location: Terun Westway
Boss:     Salamander +3

Level:    70
Location: Corrum Sih Highroad
Boss:     Snow Mu +3

FROST MAGICITE*
Level:    25
Location: Jungle Ruins of Si Khem
Boss:     Ghost

Level:    50
Location: Musqu Mazewood
Boss:     Chimera +4

Level:    80
Location: Enthe Frostfall
Boss:     Ice Goblin +4

* - Frost Magicite is only available on hard or very hard difficulty.

5. Contact Information

If you have anything to add to the guide, you think anything needs fixing, or 
you want to use my guide in anything, you can reach me via e-mail or GameFAQs.  
I don't AIM, I don't MSN, I don't do any of that.  I also don't check my e-mail 
all too regularly, so your best bet is probably to send me a message via 
GameFAQs.

E-mail: ludovico147@hotmail.com
GameFAQs: Ludovico47