FINAL FANTASY X-2

Game Script

Asch the Hated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
01: Rules of Script Usage
02: English Voice Actor’s Recognition
03: Character Accent Guides
04: Game Script
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
01: Rules of Script Usage

You will not use this script for publishing purposes, as it is illegal.

If you see something that needs correction, e-mail me at
patientascher@hotmail.com. Please only e-mail me for corrections.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
02: English Voice Actor’s Recognition

<US RECORDING>
Studio E Productions (The Annex)

RECORDING ENGINEER:                ERNIE SHEESLEY
                                   GORDON SUFFIELD
ASSISTANT RECORDING ENGINEER:      ERIC LEWIS
                                   LISA CARLON
TECHNICAL SUPERVISOR:              DENNY DENSMORE
DIALOGUE EDITORS:                  ELLIOT ANDERS
                                   TERRY REIFF
ADR EDITORS:                       ERNIE SHEESLEY
                                   ELLIOTT ANDERS
RECORDING STUDIO:                  Studio E Productions (The Annex)
STUDIO MANAGER:                    LAURA LOPEZ
DIALOGUE EDITORIAL:                Studio E Productions (The Annex)
PRODUCER:                          ALEX O. SMITH
LINE PRODUCER:                     MICHAEL HACK
VOICE DIRECTOR/CASTING DIRECTOR:   JACK FLETCHER

<CAST> (finalized according to the staff credits)

VOICE ACTORS

Yuna:               HEDY BURRESS
Rikku:              TARA STRONG
Paine:              GWENDOLINE YEO
Nooj:               GEORGE NEWBERN
Baralai:            JOSH GOMEZ
Gippal:             RICK GOMEZ
Brother / Trema:    DAVID RASNER
Buddy:              OGIE BANKS III
Shinra:             PAMELA ADLON
Barkeep / Hypello:  JOHN DEMITA
Leblanc:            MASASA
Ormi:               SARGE
Logos:              SCOTT BULLOCK

Wakka / Kimahri Ronso: JOHN DIMAGGIO
Lulu:                  PAULA TISO
Garik Ronso:           JACK FLETCHER
O’aka XXIII / Maechen: DWIGHT SCHULTZ
Tobli / Lian Ronso:    ROB PAULSEN
Tromell Guado:         CORY BURTON
Dona / Lucil:          CANDI MILO
Barthello:             JOHN DEMITA
Elma:                  JULIA FLETCHER
Clasko:                MATT MILLER
Beclem:                ADAM PAUL
Yaibal:                SCOTT MENVILLE
Shelinda:              SHERRY LYNN
Rin:                   TOM KENNY
Nhadala:               DAISY TORMÉ
Isaaru:                QUINTON FLYNN
Maroda:                ROBBIE RIST
Pacce:                 CANDI MILO
Hana:                  OLIVIA HACK
Taro:                  KATH SOUCIE
Donga:                 PHIL PROCTOR
Pukutak:               GREY DELISLE
Fayth:                 DEBBY DERRYBERRY
Cid:                   MICHAEL MCSHANE
Seymour Guado:         ALEX FERNANDEZ

Auron:                       MATT MCKENZIE
Braska / Benzo / Ayde Ronso: DEE BRADLEY BAKER
Jecht:                       GREGG BERGER

Incidental Characters: JILL TALLEY
                       SCOTT MOSENSON
                       ROGER JACKSON

Lenne / Calli:  CREE SUMMER
Tidus / Shuyin: JAMES ARNOLD TAYLOR
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
03: Character Accent Guides

Brother: Strong Tribe style accent
Tromell Guado: Slight UK accent
Maechen: Slight UK accent
Rin: Slight French/Tribe style accent
Ayde Ronso: Tribe style accent
Kimahri Ronso: Tribe style accent
Lian Ronso: Tribe style accent
Wakka: Tribe style accent
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
04: Game Script

We begin this game by watching a movie of the view of Luca then in the
Blitzball stadium, the crowds are excited about the concert. The screen then
switches to one guard KO’ed. Paine moves forward and then Rikku speaks through
receiver.

Rikku: Y, R, P, in position. It’s showtime, girls.

The center platform rises and bands are rehearsing and then, the camera shows
Yuna in her summoner outfit changing into her songstress outfit and starts
singing the song “real EMOTION”. The onscreen name, “Yuna” appears. Rikku
watches the performance through her binocular. Then a guard tries to stop her
and Rikku got mad and knocked him out. Then, the onscreen name, “Rikku”
appears. Then Paine appears and knocked out a guard. After doing so, the
onscreen name, “Paine” appears. Paine slides down from a stair rail and catches
up with Rikku. After the song is over, the FINAL FANTASY X-2 title appears.
Rikku and Paine ride on the platform to the center platform.

Rikku: Hey! Give it back already!

????: Boys!

The two Goons appeared.

????: Want in on this number? Then show me your moves!

Paine: Think you can keep up?

Rikku and Paine fight the impostor. After Rikku and Paine wins the fight...

Paine: I could’ve danced all night.

????: Sorry, no time for an encore.

The impostor fled and Rikku and Paine ran after her.

Rikku: Hold still!

Rikku and Paine ran after the impostor. After a while, they lose sight of the
impostor.

Rikku: Hey, you run too fast!

Man with Two Guns: You’re too slow; little girl.

Bulky Man: Show’s over! Bwahaha!

Rikku: Yeowch.

Paine: This way.

The two men ran after Rikku and Paine. After they stop moving, gunshots can be
heard from behind. We watch a movie of Yuna appearing and fires some rounds
near the men’s feet. The onscreen words, “Y P R” appeared. Yuna’s group fights
Logos and Ormi. After Yuna’s group wins the fight...

????: That’s quite enough sniveling, boys.

The impostor appears.

????: Persistent, aren’t you?

Yuna: My grid.

Rikku: You give us back Yunie’s Garment Grid right now!

????: Didn’t you girls ever learn to share?

Yuna: (getting mad) Give it back.

????: Very well, it’s yours.

The impostor turns into Leblanc after handing the Garment Grid to Yuna’s group.

????: But it won’t be yours for long, loves!

Yuna’s group fights Leblanc. After Yuna’s group defeats Leblanc...

Leblanc: I won’t let you off so easily next time!

Leblanc and her henchmen ran away.

Rikku: Get back here!

Paine: Rikku.

We watch a movie of Yuna in her songstress outfit dancing and then the onscreen
name, “Yuna” appears. After that, the airship, Celsius appeared.

Yuna: (narrating) My body just started dancing by itself. I didn’t know what
was going on. I was...frightened. Then, while I was dancing, something
happened...

In the Celsius...

Rikku: (to Yuna) You sure looked like you were enjoying yourself.

Yuna: I was. It felt like some other person’s excitement just took over.

Shinra: That can happen when you use the Garment Grid. The emotions of the
person recorded in the sphere pass to the user.

Rikku: Isn’t that dangerous?

Shinra: I can’t really say.

Buddy: But it’s your invention!

Shinra: I’m just a kid.

Brother: (clears his throat) Dancing Yuna? I want to see!

Yuna: It’ll cost you!

Brother: One moment...

Paine: She’s kidding.

Brother: What? No dance?

Suddenly, a alert sound is heard.

Brother: Ehlusehk tydy! Gullwings, du ouin cdydeuhc! (Incoming data! Gullwings,
to your stations!)

Yuna talks to Brother.

Brother: Yuna...has my talking... gotten better?

Yuna: (narrating) He really has improved quite a bit. He told me that he
practiced just so that he could talk with me more.

Yuna talks to Paine.

Yuna: (narrating) This is Paine. I look up to her as a sphere hunter...and also
as a friend. I still don’t know her very well. She’s not exactly the talkative
type. I heard she joined the Gullwings shortly before I did... Rikku doesn’t
know much about her either.

Paine: What now?

Yuna: Nothing!

Yuna talks to Rikku.

Rikku: Having fun?

Yuna: You bet! (narrating) It all began when I saw this sphere of you. At
least, it looked like you. I couldn’t say for sure. I thought I might find more
spheres like it if I joined the Gullwings. So I did. Oh, in case you’re
wondering, the Gullwings are sphere hunters, and sphere hunters are, well...
This! We fly all over Spira. I’m really enjoying myself.

Rikku: Glad to hear it. For a while there, I was starting to feel like a
kidnapper.

Yuna: (giggles) Don’t be silly!

Yuna talks to Shinra.

Shinra: I know everything.

Yuna: (narrating) Shinra’s an Al Bhed. He’s a real whiz kid.

Yuna talks to Buddy.

Buddy: Still analyzing.

Brother: Duu cmuf! (Too slow!)

Buddy: Crid ib! (Shut up!)

Yuna: (narrating) Buddy and Brother are old friends. Buddy says he was aboard
Cid’s airship with us two years ago. When I told him I didn’t remember, he
seemed disappointed.

Yuna proceeds to the Cabin and talks to the Barkeep.

Barkeep: Mish Yoona, what can I do for yoo?

Yuna: (narrating) Our barkeep’s a Hypello. No one knows his real name, so
everyone just calls him “Barkeep.” Brother took him in, and now he works aboard
the airship.

Yuna chooses to rest.

Barkeep: Shleep tight.

Later, Yuna wakes up.

Brother: Cbrana fyja yhymocec lusbmada! (Sphere wave analysis complete!)
Gullwings, report to the bridge!

Yuna proceeds to the Bridge.

Buddy: Treasure sphere waves! They’re coming from those ruins they found at
Gagazet.

Rikku: All right!

Brother: Haqd cdub: Gagazet! (Next stop: Gagazet!)

The Celsius proceeds to Mt. Gagazet.

Yuna: (narrating) Sacred Mt. Gagazet. Silent guardian of Zanarkand, city of the
dead. When the fayth disappeared, the clouds enshrouding the mountain began to
thin and disperse... ...revealing long-forgotten ruins among its peaks.

The camera views the Celsius flying towards Mt. Gagazet.

Yuna: Hey, the rocks are floating!

Rikku: Don’t tell me we gotta climb up that thing!

Buddy: No worries. I’ll take you to the top.

Yuna’s group landed on the Floating Ruins. Yuna suddenly feels dizzy and just
when she is about to fall to her death...

Rikku & Paine: Yuna!

Rikku and Paine immediately grab Yuna’s arms and tries to pull her up to
safety. Brother speaks through the receiver...

Brother: What’s your status?

Rikku: Disasterrific!

Brother: “Disasterrific” is not a word! Say “disastrous” like the rest of Spira!

Rikku: I’m not listening...

Brother: Rikku! Come in!

Paine: You want me to hurt him?

Rikku: That’d be great.

Brother: Come in!

Rikku & Paine: Heave ho!

Rikku and Paine pulls Yuna up to safety. After that...

Yuna: Thanks. That was a little close.

Paine: A little?

Brother: Come in!!

Yuna: We’re here. Everything’s fine now.

Brother: Yuna, keep an eye on Rikku!

Yuna: You got it!

Yuna’s group moves on. In the stairway...

Rikku: We’re not getting across this way.

Paine: Let’s find another route.

Yuna’s group found an elevator.

Paine: A dead end.

Rikku: Just great.

Yuna: Think this machina still works?

Yuna pushed the switch to activate the elevator. The elevator makes a quick
shake and then moves down.

Yuna: I wonder how safe this is...

Suddenly, the elevator went down really fast and Yuna’s group screamed in
panic. Then the elevator stopped on the ground.

Yuna: It stopped...

Rikku: Owwie.

Brother: What happened? Is Yuna okay?

Yuna: Things are...disasterrific.

Brother: Disasterrific? I am on my way!

Rikku: What about me?

Yuna’s group moves on. And then...

Yuna: Who’s there?

Leblanc: Er, Leblanc. Remember that name well, loves!

Yuna: Ah, the thief.

Leblanc: Whatever do you mean? That’s what I hate about amateurs...

Rikku: Maybe she’ll go away if we ignore her.

Leblanc: You! I heard that! Just as I was saying: amateurs! They have no
concept of what it takes to be a true sphere hunter.

Paine: Amateurs? Weren’t you following us?

Leblanc: Following? A mere coincidence.

Ormi and Logos appeared at the scene.

Ormi: You was right, Boss, as always.

Logos: Indeed, following them has paid off splendidly.

Yuna’s group laughed.

Leblanc: Laugh while you can!

Yuna’s group fights Leblanc, Ormi, and Logos. After Yuna’s group defeats them...

Leblanc: Hmph! And this is the thanks I get for going easy on you.

Leblanc drops a smoke bomb and she and Ormi and Logos got away.

Yuna: Hey!

Rikku: Who does she think she is?

Paine: She’s getting hurt.

Yuna’s group ran after Leblanc and her henchmen trying to beat them to the top
of the ruins. On the way, Logos stopped Yuna’s group from proceeding.

Logos: You look a tad flushed. Why not stop to catch your breath!

Yuna’s group fights and defeats the enemies Logos summoned. After that, Yuna’s
group runs along. On their way, Ormi stopped Yuna’s group from proceeding.

Ormi: Let’s show the ladies a nice, warm welcome!

Yuna’s group fights and defeats the enemies Ormi summoned. After that, Yuna’s
group runs along. On their way, Yuna’s group saw Leblanc and her henchmen
grabbing on each other as if they were about to fall.

Leblanc: Would-Would you, would you stop staring!

Yuna’s group finally made it to the top of the ruins. Suddenly, Yuna’s group
saw a creature up on the ceiling.

Rikku: It figures we’d run into something like this.

Paine: It comes!

Yuna’s group fights Boris. After Yuna’s group defeats Boris, they ran into the
room with a sphere. Inside...

Yuna: Found it!

Suddenly, Leblanc appeared with her henchmen.

Leblanc: It’s obvious to the trained eye. That sphere’s just a dud. Perfect for
the Dullwings.

Leblanc and her henchmen left the scene.

Rikku: (giggles) Youth wins again!

Yuna: Well, I guess we’ll be taking this!

Yuna’s group took the sphere and went outside of the room that used to have the
sphere. Outside, the Celsius appeared.

Rikku: Brother! Mission complete!

Buddy: Brother? He’s not with you?

In the Celsius, Yuna’s group proceeds to the Bridge and saw Brother lying on
the floor.

Buddy: He said something about Yuna being in trouble, then he just jumped ship.

Shinra: And here he is.

Rikku: He’s alive, right? Just leave him there.

Paine: Can you analyze the sphere we found?

Shinra: I’m on it.

Paine gave the sphere to Shinra and he begins examining it. Yuna talks and
tries to comfort Brother.

Yuna: Thank you, Brother.

Brother: It was... It’s nothing!

Yuna: Don’t strain yourself.

Brother: A leader must be tough.

Brother tries to hug Yuna.

Rikku: Sicko!

Rikku kicks Brother in the leg. Yuna talks to Shinra.

Shinra: Analysis complete. Wanna watch the sphere?

Yuna watches the sphere. The sphere views Zanarkand long time ago.

Man: I can’t believe I actually got a ticket! What a thrill, to be able to
shake her hand like that!

Yuna: Think it’s worth anything?

Rikku: It’s not very exciting.

Paine: Junk.

Shinra: But we can use it as a dressphere.

Yuna scored the Black Mage dressphere. Then, a signal was heard.

Buddy: Incoming data. Gullwings, to your stations! (to Brother) How long do you
plan on lying there?

Brother gets up.

Brother: Aqlica sa. (Excuse me.)

Yuna: What is it?

Buddy: The treasure sphere data you’ve been dying for. There’s at least one on
Besaid Island... ...and another in the Zanarkand Ruins.

Rikku: So, where to?

Yuna’s group decides to go to Besaid Island. In there, Yuna’s group proceeds to
the village.

Yuna: (narrating) This must be how a runaway feels after finally coming home.
This is the first time I’ve returned to Besaid since my journey began.

Yuna looks at the village as the camera views Besaid Island.

Yuna: I’m a little nervous.

Rikku: I bet, the way you took off without a word.

Wakka: Yeah, you said it.

Wakka appeared.

Wakka: You caused quite a fuss, young lady.

Yuna: I’m sorry.

Wakka: Well, as long as you’re okay, ya? (looking at Paine) Your friend?

Yuna: Oh, this is Paine. We’re looking for spheres together.

Paine nods a little.

Wakka: So you’re a sphere hunter now... I heard the rumors. To tell you the
truth, I wasn’t too worried. Gotta say, though... You, uh, do seem pretty
different.

Yuna giggles. Rikku lightly elbows Wakka’s stomach.

Rikku: You haven’t changed a bit, tubby!

Wakka: Whoa! Cut it out, ya! I’m going to be a father soon. Got to have a
little more presence, you know?

Yuna: How much longer?

Wakka: Any day now?

Rikku: Wakka, a daddy!

Wakka: To tell the truth,  I sure don’t feel like one. I mean, how do I know
how a father’s supposed to act in front of his kid?

Rikku: Why not just do what your parents did?

Wakka: Hm, don’t remember ‘em. Sin saw to that when I was still little.

Yuna: You don’t have any spheres of them?

Wakka: Nope, not a single--

Rikku: What’s wrong?

Wakka: Oh, uh...nothing, nothing. Anyway, do me a favor and go say hi to Lu.
She’s been worried about you. Get going!

Wakka left the scene. Yuna’s group proceeds to Lulu’s hut. Inside, Yuna talks
to Lulu.

Lulu: Welcome back.

Yuna: Hi, Lulu.

Rikku: So tell us about the baby! It’s gonna be born soon, right?

Lulu: Hm. Not yet. Wakka’s getting a little ahead of himself.

Rikku: Aw, bummer.

Lulu: So, care to go for a little walk?

Yuna: Can you?

Lulu: I could use the exercise. Come on.

Yuna’s group and Lulu walks to the summit. There...

Lulu: So, what’s so important that you’d run off without telling us?

Yuna: This.

Lulu: The sphere. Wakka told me about it.

Yuna views the sphere and it shows a man that looks like “him”.

Rikku: Kimahri said he found it on Mt. Gagazet.

Lulu: It does look like him. Though something seems a little off.

The sphere stops.

Lulu: Have you found anything?

Yuna: Nothing. But there’s still lot of places we haven’t looked yet.

Lulu: Must be fun, being free to go where you please.

Yuna: It is fun, I never expected a journey quite like this.

Lulu: I’m not there, so you can spread your wings.

Yuna: Maybe.

Lulu: You have spread your wings. Well, good luck. But, Yuna, never forget who
you are.

Yuna had a short puzzled look.

Lulu: You’re the high summoner that defeated Sin. There are those who would use
that, Yuna.

Yuna: I’ll be all right. I won’t let myself be used anymore. Not by anyone.

Lulu felt something.

Yuna: Hm?

Lulu: It kicked.

Yuna: Really?

Rikku: I wanna feel!

Later, Yuna’s group and Lulu walks back to the village.

Lulu: Since you’ve come all this way, why not stay the night?

In Lulu’s hut, Yuna’s group talks to Lulu.

Lulu: Staying the night?

Yuna: Yes, I’d love to.

The next morning, Yuna’s group walks outside of the hut and talks to Lulu.

Lulu: Good morning.

Yuna: Oh, where’s Wakka?

Lulu: He left at daybreak. He said something about a cave.

Rikku: A cave? I wonder what he’s up to.

Yuna: Want us to go find out?

Rikku: Yeah, there might be fiends.

Lulu: Thanks. Though, I doubt he’d have trouble handling a few fiends. Still,
I’m a little worried. It’s not like Wakka to hide things.

Yuna: That’s funny. I don’t remember there being any cave.

Lulu: I don’t know much about it either. Would you mind asking around?

Yuna: We’re on the case!

Yuna’s group talks to some people in the village and gathered clues about where
the cave is. They were informed that they must decipher a code to unlock the
cave entrance. Yuna searches for the codes. Then Yuna gets receiving from
Brother.

Brother: Any trouble?

Yuna: We’re fine. How about you guys?

Brother: My heart...is aching...

Yuna: Huh?

Brother: Ahh, nothing.

Yuna’s group continues on. Later Yuna receives another transmission...

Yuna: Yuna here.

Yuna heard nobody.

Yuna: Huh. That was weird.

Buddy: It’s nothing!

Yuna’s group continues on. After successfully finding the codes, Yuna’s group
deciphered the lock at the cave entrance. Inside the cave...

Wakka: Something wrong?

Yuna: We came to check on you.

Rikku: Is there something in this cave?

Wakka: Uh, yeah...something like that. Who knows, maybe it’s not here, ya? But
I thought, “what if...” Maybe it’s for real. Then again, maybe it never was.
Been so long, I’m not sure anymore.

Paine: So, you’re saying there’s something that might be here, and you want to
know for sure. Right?

Wakka: Right. But you see...I wanna know, and then I sorta don’t wanna know.

Rikku: Aw, man, make up your mind! What is this thing, anyway?

Wakka: Well, uh... See, I heard there was this old sphere.

Rikku: A  sphere? Of what?

Wakka: A sphere of...you know. What does it matter?

Paine walks away.

Wakka: Hey, whoa!

Paine: We’re sphere hunters, remember?

Rikku: It’s as good as ours!

Yuna: All right, Gullwings...

Rikku: Time for business!

Yuna’s group left the scene.

Wakka: The Gullwings, huh?

Yuna’s group moves on. Then, Yuna got a transmission from Brother.

Brother: This is Brother. You all right, Yuna?

Yuna: Yessir!

Rikku: Just ignore him.

Yuna’s group continues on. In the area with a sphere, Yuna’s group examines it
and suddenly, the Flame Dragon appeared behind them.

Paine: Find a sphere and the fiends appear.

Yuna’s group fights Flame Dragon. After Yuna’s group defeats Flame Dragon, Yuna
takes the White Mage dressphere.

Yuna: One more for the Gullwings!

Yuna’s group goes back to where Wakka is sitting. They speak to Wakka.

Wakka: Find anything?

Rikku: We sure did?

Yuna: Let’s take a look.

Yuna’s group views the sphere and it shows Besaid. After that...

Rikku: This it?

Wakka: Nah, ‘fraid not.

Later, Yuna’s group and Wakka walk outside.

Rikku: So, what sphere were you looking for?

Wakka: Well... It’s a sphere of our parents. Chappu said he found it.

Rikku: Chappu? Oh, your brother!

Wakka: He was a Crusader. Now he’s gone on to the Farplane. Sin got our parents
not long after Chappu was born. We were too young to remember their faces, you
know? When we were kids, we got into a fight one time and Chappu said: “I found
a sphere with mom and dad in it, but I’m not telling you where it is.”

Yuna: And you never asked him?

Wakka: I was too boneheaded to let my little brother win. So I went on without
asking until I just forgot about it. Then yesterday, talking with you made me
think about it again. Chappu used to play in this cave, so I thought maybe he
found the sphere here, ya? But when I came to look...I got to thinking.

Rikku: About what?

Wakka: See, I got this picture of my parents in my head, ya? Strong, and
kind... Whenever things got tough, those are the parents I imagined. But their
real faces might be totally different, ya? I think about that and I’m not so
sure I really wanna know. I was sittin’ there trying to figure out what to do.
And then you guys showed up.

Rikku: That’s our Wakka.

Yuna: The sphere might still be somewhere on the island. Should we look for it?

Wakka: Nah, that’s all right. I’m through worrying about that stuff. What’s
past is past, ya? Can’t let it get to me. I’m going to be a father soon. Gotta
pull it together!

Rikku: That’s right, Dad.

Wakka raises his right arm up and lets it down.

Wakka: But, uh... Just how am I supposed to pull it together? Sure wish I had
something to go by, you know?

Yuna’s group got a transmission from Buddy.

Buddy: You read me? You guys about finished down there? Brother’s starting to
get on my nerves.

Yuna: Yeah, we’ll be back soon.

Brother: Yay!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Luca. In there…

Man: Lady Yuna, your concert was incredible!

Kid: Would you sign this, please?

Rikku: Single file, no pushing! The Gullwings, at your service!

Yuna: (narrating) I couldn’t bring myself to tell them it was just an impostor.
The whole mess started with the Garment Grid… That’s the invention that lets us
harness the dresspheres’ power.

In Yuna’s memory, Yuna fired her gun near Logos and Ormi’s feet.

Yuna: (narrating) Believe it or not, this was the easy part!

The camera views Rikku and Paine walking upstairs.

Yuna: (narrating) We chased the thieves all the way to Luca, but when we
arrived…

Man 1: Hear that? Lady Yuna in concert!

Man 2: All right! Think there’re any tickets left?

Rikku: Looks like your impostor’s pretty popular.

Paine: I doubt anyone would believe ours is the real Yuna.

Rikku: Not dressed like that!

Yuna: I didn’t ask to wear this.

Yuna appeared in a moogle costume.

Yuna: Whew. It’s hot…

Paine: Shall we finish this before Yuna passes out?

Rikku: We’ll be back in two shakes, so be a good moogle, you hear?

Rikku and Paine left the scene.

Yuna: The plan was to sneak into the impostor’s concert and recover the Garment
Grid. If I went in, our cover would be blown, so it was up to Rikku and Paine.
Which left me with nothing to do but lay low and wait.

Yuna’s moogle mask almost fell off.

Yuna: (narrating) and that’s how I got stuck with the Gullwings’
prized…garment. I complained, but Brother’s orders are still orders.

The memory ended. In the next area at the present time…

Rikku: So what did you do after we left?

Yuna: Top secret!

Girl: Mommy! Mommy my balloon!

The girl’s balloon levitated up into the air. In Yuna’s memory again…

Yuna: Oh, hurry up.

Balloon Vendor: You, get over here!

Yuna: Huh?

Yuna approaches the balloon vendor.

Balloon Vendor: You’re here to promote the concert, right?

Yuna: Me? No, there must be some mistake.

Balloon Vendor: Thanks! And, hey—don’t screw up.

Yuna: (narrating) Did I do it because I couldn’t turn him down, or because the
conversation was over before I had the chance?

Yuna begins passing out balloons.

Yuna: Get ‘em while they’re hot!

Yuna passes a balloon to the 1st person.

Yuna: Come see the concert, okay?

Yuna passes a balloon to the 2nd person.

Yuna: Here you go!

Yuna passes a balloon to the 3rd person.

Yuna: Don’t forget to cheer!

Yuna passes a balloon to the 4th person.

Yuna : The concert’s about to start!

Yuna passes a balloon to the 5th person.

Yuna: Go on, take one!

Yuna passes a balloon to the 6th person.

Yuna: It’s a really nice balloon!

Yuna passes a balloon to the 7th person.

Yuna: Come see Lady Yuna, okay?

Yuna passes a balloon to the 8th person.

Yuna: Wanna see the concert?

Yuna passes a balloon to the 9th person.

Yuna: And that makes ten!

Yuna passes the last balloon to the 10th person.

Yuna: Mission accomplished!

Yuna suddenly gets a transmission from Rikku.

Rikku: Y, R, P…in position. It’s showtime, girls.

Yuna: It’s starting!

The memory ended. In the present time…

Rikku: The place was packed with people dancing!

Yuna: You think Leblanc was enjoying herself?

Paine: Until she got hurt.

In Yuna’s memory…

Yuna: Does she look that much like me?

Yuna in her moogle suit approaches the guard.

Guard 1: Hold it! The concert’s sold out. You can’t go in.

Yuna: I can’t?

Guard 1: Definitely not. Go on, get out of here.

Guard 2 appeared.

Guard 2: Hey, we’ve got some gatecrashers.

Guard 1: Must be those sphere hunters!

The guards reverted to Leblanc’s goons.

Goon 1: Let’s move!

Goon 2: Yes, sir!

Yuna: Oh, no!

Yuna ran away to another area.

Yuna: I hadn’t heard from Rikku or Paine, so I didn’t know what to do…

Rikku: Hold still!

Yuna: It’s me!

Yuna ran to an area and kneels.

Yuna: (narrating) I wasn’t sure what I was doing.

Rikku appeared near Yuna with her moogle costume and Yuna heals Rikku.

Yuna: (narrating) Rikku sure was having fun.

In slow motion, Logos saw Yuna in her moogle suit while passing by.

Yuna: Looks like trouble!

Yuna got out of her moogle costume and has her guns ready.

Yuna: Finally!

The camera views Rikku and Paine surrounded by Ormi and Logos and Yuna appeared.

Yuna: Here comes the real Yuna!

Gunshots can be heard. The memory ended.

Rikku: I was just about to finish ‘em off, but then you showed up and stole all
the fun.

Yuna: I guess I was so glad to get out of that thing that I went a little nuts.

Paine: That explains the dancing.

Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Brother.

Brother: Yuna’s dancing? Where? I am there!

Rikku: Listening close enough?

The Celsius appeared.

Yuna: (narrating) So this is my life now. We travel from place to place, and
the days just seem to fly by. But sometimes I find myself stopping… I’m
listening for your whistle.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They go back to Luca and talks to Rin in the
side rooms of the blitzball stadium.

Rin: Ah, the lady Yuna.

Yuna: It’s been too long.

Rikku: Whatcha selling this time?

Rin: Entertainment. Lady Yuna’s Calm has given the people of Spira time to
relax and enjoy the finer things in life. What better time for me to introduce
Sphere Break? It won’t be long now before Luca will host the inaugural
tournament. You are more than welcome to compete, if you like.

Yuna: (to Rikku and Paine) Should we?

Rikku: Yeah!

Rin: Ask around if you would like to know the rules of the game. Ihdem haqd
desa. (Until next time.)

Rin left the scene. After Yuna’s group asked some people about Sphere Break,
they board the Celsius. They proceed to Mi’ihen Highroad. In there…

Yuna: The Mi’ihen Highroad: where Crusaders once marched toward battle with
Sin, while travellers fled from its shadow. I walked this road, too, on my
pilgrimage to Zanarkand. And you walked by my side. It was a journey filled
with laughter.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Mushroom Rock Road. In there,
Yuna’s group saw Ormi and Logos entering the area.

Rikku: It’s those creeps again!

Paine: Maybe there’s a sphere here.

Yuna: It’s our turn to do the following.

Yuna talks to Yaibal.

Yaibal: Good to see you again, Lady Yuna! You haven’t forgotten me, have you?

Yuna: Yaibal, isn’t it? You’re in the Youth League.

Yaibal: You really do remember me! I’m truly honored, Lady Yuna! Since that day
we first spoke, the Youth League has been conducting a sphere hunt of its own.
We, the Youth League… Hmm… Clasko, take it from here.

Clasko: (doesn’t seem happy) We, the Youth League, to better our understanding
of Spira’s past, vow to remain vigilant in our search… …for ruins and spheres.

Rikku: Ohh, that’s enough! Those two guys are getting away!

Paine: Did Leblanc’s men pass through here?

Yaibal: Yes. They said they’re here to take care of our fiend problem. You see,
the Youth League is in preparation for an important operation, leaving our
patrols shorthanded. As a result, the road to headquarters has been overrun
with fiends. Be warned: unless you can defeat the fiends on the road, you will
not be able to pass. So, are you ready to run the gauntlet?

Yuna: Sure, we’re game.

Yaibal: Understood! Expect to encounter fiends until you reach the vicinity of
the lift. Fight your way through them and proceed to headquarters. That’s it.
Good luck! Clasko? Clasko! Show them the way!

Clasko: O-Of course. This way, please.

Rikku: Yeah! Let’s hunt some fiend!

Before Yuna follows her group, she talks to Clasko.

Yuna: You seem down.

Clasko: Well, a lot has happened since you brought us the Calm. I ended up
following Captain Lucil. When she joined the Youth League, so did I. But I’m
still stuck playing tour guide. You know, all I want is to ride on a
chocobo…faster than the wind!

Yuna catches up with her group and moves on to the next area. In the next area,
Yuna’s group chases after Logos and Ormi. At the Den of Woe…

Ormi: This one ain’t no good.

Logos: Nor this one.

Yuna’s group appeared at the scene.

Yuna: What’re you doing?

Ormi and Logos freaked out.

Ormi: (collecting the spheres) Let’s get outta here!

Logos: We must inform the boss!

Logos fires his gun. Smokes appeared at the scene and they both disappeared.

Rikku: Hey, they dropped something!

Yuna: Finders keepers.

While Yuna’s group tries to exit the Den of Woe, Maroda appeared at the scene.

Maroda: Hey. Long time no see. Remember me?

Yuna: Of course I do!

Maroda: Glad to hear it.

Yuna: How’ve you been?

Maroda: I joined up with the Youth League and that’s been keeping me pretty
busy.

Yuna: Oh, I’m a sphere hunter now.

Maroda: Ah, that sounds great, trying out a new way of life. Actually, Pacce’s
a sphere hunter now, too. He’s the leader of the Kinderguardians. Be nice to
him if you see him.

Yuna: How’s Isaaru?

Maroda does not answer.

Maroda: The Youth League discovered this place, you know. It’s called the Den
of Woe. It was sealed around the time of Operation Mi’ihen.

Yuna: And Isaaru?

Maroda still does not answer.

Maroda: But, uh, the seal can supposedly be broken with the right combination
of spheres.

Yuna: Um…

Maroda: I’m afraid this place is off-limits until we can conduct a more
thorough investigation. So I’ll, um, have to ask you to leave. I’m sorry.

Yuna’s group left the Den of Woe and they arrived at the elevator.

Elma: Oh, wow! Lady Yuna! It’s me, Elma! It’s been so long! Wow, you’ve really
changed.

Yuna: How are you?

Elma: Never better! Now that I’m in the Youth League, I’ve always got something
to do. Hey, you made it past all the fiends. Nice work! (to the Youth League
members) Go on, step aside!

Youth League Members: Right away, Captain!

Yuna: Wow, look at you!

Elma: Not bad, huh?

Yuna’s group proceeds to the elevator and they arrive at the Youth League
headquarters.

Yuna: (narrating) This is Youth League headquarters. The Youth League was
formed a year ago by people who opposed New Yevon. Its members claim that, in
the hands of New Yevon, Spira would only repeat its past mistakes. Their leader
is a former Crusader named Nooj. Apparently he earned quite a reputation among
the Crusaders.

Yuna approaches and talks to Lucil.

Lucil: It’s been too long, Lady Yuna. I am Lucil, commander of the Youth League
forces.

Yuna: It’s good to see you!

Rikku: Hiya!

Lucil: I am glad to find you well. As you can see, I have joined the Youth
League to aid in the fight for a new Spira. I consider it my duty. Meyvn Nooj,
out leader, has been hoping for an audience with my lady for some time.
Unfortunately, he is planning a mission of great import and will be occupied
well into the night. I am terribly sorry, but I must ask that you return
another day.

Yuna: Oh, it’s no trouble.

Lucil: My apologies.

Rikku: The Youth League’s looking for spheres too, right?

Lucil: Yes. “Knowledge of the past is the key to the future.” So says the
meyvn. It is with these words in mind that we seek the spheres of yore. The
mission we are planning also revolves around a sphere, but… I am sorry. I had
best say no more. It is not a matter to be discussed openly.

Paine: No, I suppose not.

Lucil: My apologies.

Yuna’s group proceeds back to the entrance of Mushroom Rock Road and talks to
Clasko.

Clasko: That’s it. Every time I try something new, I screw it up. I just don’t
know what I want to do with my life. I don’t know where I belong. I’ve spent my
whole life drifting from one failure to the next. But, I can’t keep doing this
forever. I know that there’s a place for everyone in this world—even someone as
sad and pathetic as me. Lady Yuna! I want to find my place! Please, allow me to
ride on your airship!

Yuna: The more the merrier!

Clasko: Thank you so much! I’ll find my true calling, you’ll see!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna goes to the Cabin and talks to Clasko.

Clasko: Why won’t the room stop shaking?

Yuna’s group proceeds to Djose Temple.

Yuna: (narrating) After we defeated Sin, people began to distance themselves
from the temples. For a long time, Djose Temple was neglected as well. But now…

In Djose Temple…

Yuna: Everyone’s staring.

Rikku: You’re famous, Yunie. Better get used to it.

Yuna: All I want’s some peace and quiet.

Rikku: (to Paine) Poor thing. She’s led such a sheltered life.

Paine: Maybe she’s getting old.

Yuna: Who’s getting old?

Then, a man with an eye patch appeared and pass by Yuna.

Rikku: That’s Gippal, leader of the Machine Faction. He can be kind of
annoying, but he’s all right.

Gippal: Okay, let’s do some interviews. Bring it!

Yuna: (giggles) Yeah, he seems all right.

Yuna’s group waits in line to talk to the employee to go digging and the
employee told them to go into the temple. Then outside, the guards let Yuna’s
group through and then Yuna’s group talks to Gippal.

Gippal: (to an Al Bhed) E ryja ymnayto ehdanjeafat people. (I have already
interviewed people.) Uha uv oui kioc dyga ujan. (One of you guys take over.)

Al Bhed: Gippal!

Gippal saw Yuna’s group.

Gippal: Huh?

Yuna: Hello.

Gippal: You, uh, here for an interview?

Yuna: Uh-huh.

Gippal: The great high summoner wants an interview?

Yuna: Former summoner.

Gippal: Hm. All right, follow me.

Yuna’s group follows Gippal outside of the temple. Outside, Yuna’s group
approaches the bridge where Gippal is.

Gippal: Never been this close to a celebrity before.

Yuna: That’s nice.

Gippal: I could get used to this.

Yuna: Let’s not.

Gippal: Well, if it isn’t Cid’s girl. How you been?

Rikku: Hey, I have a name!

Gippal: Heh. Brother doin’ okay?

Rikku: Same as ever. Buddy’s around, too.

Gippal: Same ax ever is right. (looking at Paine) You!

Paine: Paine. Nice to meet you.

Gippal: Uh-huh?

Paine: We’re here for the interview.

Gippal: Right…the interview.

After the interview…

Gippal: You sure you wanna dig? ‘Cause we’re talking about the desert, ladies.
Not exactly a picnic.

Yuna: We’re sure.

Gippal: All right, you’re hired. Welcome.

Yuna: Huh?

Gippal: You. Are. Hired. Don’t know why a superstar like you would want to play
in the sand. Well, do what you gotta do. Anyways, I’ve done what I can. Dig to
your heart’s content.

Yuna: Um, thanks.

Gippal: Show this letter to a woman named Nhadala. You’ll find her in the
Bikanel Desert.

Gippal gave Yuna a Letter of Introduction.

Gippal: Happy digging!

Yuna’s group proceeds to Bikanel Desert. In there…

Yuna: Bikanel Island. This is where the Al Bhed’s beloved Home stood until two
years ago. Most have moved on, but a handful of Al Bhed still live here today.
They say countless machina lie buried under the desert sands.

Rikku: Leave the trailblazing to me!

Later…

Rikku: Umm, I don’t think that sand dune used to be there…

After moving forward for a while…

Paine: Rikku, you do know the way, right?

Yuna: Uh, Rikku? Are we in trouble?

Yuna’s group keeps running forward and later they became exhausted and are
kneeling to the ground.

Picket: Greenhorns eh nakeuhc B-5! (Greenhorns in region B-5!)

Picket appeared at the scene. Later, the screen switches to two Al Bheds.

Al Bhed 1: Muugc mega drao yna lusehk du. (Looks like they are coming to.)

Al Bhed 2: Paddan ku damm dra vunafusyh. (Better go tell the forewoman.)

Later in the camp of Bikanel Desert…

Al Bhed: Dra vunafusyh ec fyedehk ujan drana. (The forewoman is waiting over
there.)

Yuna finds and talks to her group.

Rikku: He says they had to move the camp to escape the sandstorm. We could’ve
looked forever and never found it.

An Al Bhed appeared and told the man who Rikku was talking to about something.
Rikku looks displeased.

Yuna: What?

Rikku: Sounds like there’s a big sandstorm coming in. It’s probably too big for
the airship to handle.

Paine: I guess we won’t be leaving the way we came.

Pilot: What have we here, wannabe diggers?

Yuna: Yes.

Pilot: You’re gonna need Nhadala’s permission first.

Suddenly, a motor sled passed by.

Al Bhed: Cra’c pylg! (She’s back!)

Nhadala appeared at the scene.

Nhadala: Y cduns? E ryda cdunsc. (A storm? I hate storms.)

Yuna’s group talks to Nhadala.

Nhadala: I’m busy, so make it fast, okay? I’ve got lots to excavate and no one
to do it.

Rikku: Yunie, show her Gippal’s letter!

Yuna: I’ve got this letter...

Nhadala: Oh, so you’re the new guys!

Rikku: That’s us!

Yuna: Nice to meet you.

Nhadala: Hmm. I guess the high summoner’s hard up, too. Well, don’t be
expecting any special treatment.

Yuna: Right!

Nhadala: Let’s get to it, then.

The camera views the overhead of the camp.

Nhadala: Here’s where we are.

The camera views the overhead of the area next to the camp.

Nhadala: And here is where you’re headed.

Rikku: Aw. But it’s so far!

Nhadala: We’ll send you out there by hover. Go talk to the pilot about it.

Yuna’s group talks to the pilot.

Pilot: I see you got the OK to dig. Don’t let us down. We’ll start you out
someplace safe: the Western Expanse. Where can I take you?

Yuna: Western Expanse.

Pilot: Oh, before we head out… Let me introduce you to your partner. Got a bit
of a mouth on him, so try and be patient.

Picket: Hey, sweetcakes, nice to meet you!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the digging area and they dig the item Nhadala needed.
After that…

Nhadala: Just what we needed! You’re good.

Rikku: What did you expect?

Nhadala: Don’t let it go to your head. But you did do a good job. Here. Your
reward.

Rikku: Yes!

Yuna: Thank you!

Yuna’s group received gils, Still of Night Garment Grid and Elixir. Before
Yuna’s group could exit Bikanel Desert…

Nhadala: Come back any time you like. We’ll be here.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Moonflow.

Yuna: (narrating) Spira’s landscape really hasn’t changed much since then. If
anything’s changed, people seem to smile more often now… It’s as if they
finally have time to notice the beauty around them.

In Moonflow…

Yuna: Hey, this is nice out here.

Rikku: What?

Yuna: People are enjoying nature—it’s very peaceful.

Rikku: Sure is. A lot of people are travelling these days, trying to learn more
about Spira.

Paine: Thanks to you, Yuna.

Yuna: I had nothing to do with it.

Rikku: Go on, give yourself a pat on the back!

Yuna’s group talks to Tobli.

Tobli: On this spot, I’ll be sponsoring an extraordinary show! Do, do come! Oh,
and I’m Tobli. Yup-yup! It will be splendid indeed! Mark my words! People here
and there, and merriment everywhere!

Rikku: Hey, that sounds like fun! Okay, well, we’ll see you then!

Before Yuna’s group could leave…

Tobli: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! I have a favor to ask of you!

Paine: Let’s go.

Yuna: Um, okay? After all, we’re sphere hunters.

Rikku: Right-o!

There was a brief pause.

Yuna: Oh, let’s hear him out!

Paine is frustrated and Rikku giggles.

Tobli: Oh, here’s the thing, you see. My able assistant hasn’t come back. From
Luca, of course. Where else? He went to fetch some supplies, which are vitally,
crucially important! For the show, you see.

Rikku: “Go check on him,” right?

Tobli: Oh, quite, quite!

Paine: Why ask us?

Tobli: Because you are sphere hunters and sphere hunters hunt spheres!

Tobli reveals a dressphere.

Rikku: That settles it!

Tobli: Right, right. It’s yours if you return my assistant safely back to
safety. I’m thinking he must be over in the general vicinity of Djose Temple.
Oh, and he’s a Hypello.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the general vicinity of  Djose Temple. In there…

Hypello: Oh, I am in trubbable.

Yuna’s group talks to the Hypello.

Yuna: You’re Tobli’s assistant?

Hypello: Yesh. Are yoo friends of the chief?

Rikku: We sure are. You just sit back and let the Gullwings escort you back to
Tobli.

Hypello: Thank yoo.

Yuna’s group escorts Tobli’s assistant Hypello back to Moonflow. After that…

Tobli: Oh ho ho, you returned!

Hypello: Thanks to these ladies.

Tobli: Yup-yup! Of course, you’ve been most helpful! With this, the show is
just a step away from smashing success! Here, as promised.

Yuna’s group received Gun Mage dressphere.

Tobli: Oh, and take this with you, too! For everything you’ve done.

Yuna’s group received Circlet and Helios Guard Garment Grid.

Tobli: It’s such a good fuzzy feeling, meeting reliable people persons such as
yourselves. Yessiree.

Yuna: You’re very welcome!

Rikku: Just remember, it was the Gullwings that helped you out!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Guadosalam. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) Guadosalam, home of the Guado. You remember, right? But the
Guado are no longer here. Some people think they deserved all that happened for
what they did to Spira. They have a point…but it seems like such a sad way to
look at things.

The camera views the areas with people at Guadosalam. Yuna’s group boards the
Celsius. They proceed to Thunder Plains. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) Guess what! Rikku finally overcame her fear of thunder. Know
how? She said she camped out here for a week!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Macalania Woods. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) It’s been two years since the fayth in Macalania Temple
disappeared. They say it’s affecting not only the lake, but the woods as well.

Yuna’s group saw Bayra.

Bayra: The woods will soon be no more.

Bayra left the scene as he plays the harp. Yuna’s group finds Donga.

Donga: The end has come faster than I thought. What can we do? I’ll be there in
two shakes.

Donga disappeared at the scene. Yuna’s group moves on and they find Pukutak.

Pukutak: Oh me, oh my, what did you say? Don’t move an inch! I’m on my way!

Pukutak moves away from Yuna’s group a little.

Pukutak: These woods grow lonely day by day.

Yuna’s group moves on. They later found Tromell and talks to him.

Tromell: Oh, High Summoner Yuna. Forgive me for the grief I have caused you.

Yuna: How have you been?

Tromell: Well… With Lord Seymour gone, we Guado are hardly different from the
dead.

Yuna talks to Tromell for the second time.

Tromell: Many Ronso lost their lives at the hands of Lord Seymour. Those who
survived swore vengeance for their fallen comrades. We Guado sealed ourselves
away in Guadosalam and strengthened our defenses… But soon we no longer had the
strength for even this. Now, we live among the shadows of these woods.

Yuna: Tromell…

Yuna talks to Tromell for the third time.

Tromell: High Summoner, do not trouble yourself to show sympathy for the Guado.
We once walked willingly with Lord Seymour, never questioning, even as he led
all Spira into madness. Lady Yuna, I cannot ask that you forgive us… …only that
you forget us.

Yuna: Tromell…

Yuna talks to Tromell for the fourth time.

Tromell: Ah, well, what brings the high summoner to these woods?

Yuna: Well, I’m a sphere hunter now.

Tromell: Hm. A sphere hunter?

Rikku: We hunt spheres.

Tromell: You don’t say… Well, then, please allow me to give you this. It is of
no use to us.

Tromell gave the sphere to Yuna.

Rikku: Score!

Yuna: Thank you!

Yuna’s group received Paine’s Full Throttle dressphere. Yuna’s group moves on
to the Al Bhed Travel Agency. Outside near the shop…

Male Al Bhed 1: Frana ec ra? (Where is he?)

Male Al Bhed 2: O’aka, kad uid rana! (O’aka, get out here!)

Female Al Bhed: Lusa uid! Nacicdyhla ec videma! (Come out! Resistance is
futile!)

Yuna’s group heard everything the Al Bheds were saying. Then O’aka XXIII
appeared at the scene near Yuna’s group.

O’aka: Shhh! Do O’aka a favor and pretend ye never saw him!

O’aka ran away very fast. Yuna’s group tries to go after him. In the woods…

Rikku: O’aka XXIII! Where are you?

Yuna’s group begins running after O’aka. In the other area with a single Guado,
Yuna’s group talks to the Guado.

Guado: My, I certainly have a lot of visitors today, don’t I?

Yuna’s group talks to the Guado again.

Guado: Oh, dear. I don’t think I was supposed to say that.

Yuna’s group talks to the Guado again and the camera views O’aka on top of the
tree branch.

Guado: I was supposed to say, “Don’t walk over there!”

Yuna’s group finally found O’aka.

O’aka: It looks like ye finally caught up with me. O’aka at your service!

Yuna’s group talks to O’aka.

O’aka: I bought the Travel Agency from Mr. Rin, but then the temple nearby sank
to the bottom of the lake. And business sank with it. Just my luck. Now the Al
Bhed have come to collect and they’re not in the mood for excuses. Think ye
could give old O’aka a place to lay low? Hmm? For a while? I’ll find a way to
make it up to ye, I promise.

Yuna: What do you think? Sounds like he’s in trouble… Let’s hide him on the
airship!

O’aka: Thank ye!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. In the Cabin, Yuna’s group talks to O’aka.

O’aka: Welcome to O’aka’s.

Yuna’s group bought enough items from O’aka to pay off his debt. After that…

O’aka: Now I can finally go back to me shop!

O’aka kneels down in excitement. After that…

O’aka: “So long, thanks for everything.” Not exactly a proper thanks, now is
it? I think I’ll keep doing business here for a bit. At a tremendous discount,
of course!

Yuna’s group now proceed to Bevelle. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) Bevelle remains at the heart of Spira, even today. It’s also
the place where I was born. I suppose that makes it my hometown, but I can’t
say that I have a lot of fond memories here.

Yuna’s group proceeds forward. Then in the next area…

Woman: L-Lady Yuna? Please, this way!

Yuna’s group follows the woman to the entrance.

Man: Oh! The high summoner! I see you’ve finally decided to join New Yevon! You
do us much longer, my lady. Lord Braska—may he rest in peace—would be proud. I
will summon the praetor immediately. I beg your leave.

Later…

Rikku: Pushy, isn’t he?

Yuna looks discomforted.

Yuna: We should leave.

Rikku: Hey, what’s the matter, Yunie?

Yuna: Well, you see, there was this arrangement…with the son of the chairman of
New Yevon. I turned the offer down, but I thought it’d be kind of awkward.

Rikku: Yuna! Hmm?

Paine: You’re probably right. Let’s go.

Paine is about to leave.

Rikku: Huh? No, wait! Wait! Hey!

Rikku sighs afterwards. Later, the door opened with the praetor coming out. The
praetor did his pray.

Baralai: A pleasure, Lady Yuna. I am Baralai, Praetor of New Yevon.

Rikku: So, you’re the chairman’s son?

Baralai: Ah. As it happens, the chairman has recently resigned. As did his son,
the praetor. They were trying to take too much power. We had to ask them to
leave. Now the younger members run the party—by mutual consensus, of course.

Yuna: I’m sorry to hear that.

Baralai: So you see, Lady Yuna… It is not I that was meant to marry the high
summoner.

Yuna: My!

Baralai: Not that we wouldn’t appreciate your support. On the contrary, you’d
be most welcome. I understand if your feelings toward Yevon are mixed. But I
would hope that you could put that aside and join our cause. The world is
changing, and there many who are finding it difficult to keep up. New Yevon
wishes to help those who feel lost in the winds of change. If you’ll excuse me,
there are matters which require my attention. Oh, and should you come across
any spheres of Spira’s past, please do let us know.

Baralai does his bow.

Baralai: My lady.

Baralai went back in the temple and left the scene.

Rikku: Oohh! So, what do you think?

Yuna: Wh-What? Paine?

Paine: I think I’ve heard enough. What now?

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Calm Lands. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) The Calm Lands. Many summoners used to cross these plains,
their hearts heavy with the weight of their pilgrimage. I was no different. But
the Calm Lands we knew have changed.

The camera views Calm Lands with mini-games in the area.

Rikku: Ooh, I love these games!

Paine: I have a hundred Argent Credits.

Rikku: Well, I have a hundred Open Air Credits!

Yuna: Open-air what?

Rikku: Well…

After playing some mini-games, Yuna’s group signed up for one of the publicity
and starts talking to people around Spira. After doing so, Yuna’s group boards
the Celsius. Next, they proceed to Mt. Gagazet. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) The Ronso still live here on Mt. Gagazet. Kimahri is their
elder now, and he’s working hard to unite his people. Still it seems much
quieter here than it used to be. Maybe because summoners no longer come here to
climb the sacred mountain…

Yuna’s group approaches and Kimahri appeared.

Yuna: Kimahri!

Kimahri: Yuna look well. Kimahri glad.

Rikku: How you been, Kimahri? What’s it like being an elder?

Kimahri: Elder’s job difficult. Kimahri troubled.

Suddenly, Garik appeared.

Garik: Elder. Lian and Ayde not here! Children have left mountain. Gone to
search for elder’s horn!

Yuna: What’s going on?

Kimahri: Lian and Ayde still pups, but bear Ronso future. Say they search for
way to fix Kimahri’s broken horn.

Garik: If Kimahri act like true elder, these things not happen.

Kimahri: Maybe so.

Rikku: Kimahri…

Garik: (about to walk away) High Summoner Yuna, it is Garik’s honor.

Yuna: Nice to meet you.

Garik: Garik know Yuna save Spira, but Ronso not saved yet.

Yuna: Um… We’ll take care of Lian and Ayde.

Garik went “hmph”. Yuna talks to Kimahri.

Kimahri: Kimahri worried about Lian and Ayde. But Kimahri cannot leave
mountain. If Yuna find Lian and Ayde, bring them back to Gagazet.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group now proceeds to Zanarkand Ruins.
In there...

Yuna: (narrating) This is where we sat that night, the seven of us. I’ve never
talked about it. I didn’t want to share my memories. I wanted to keep that
feeling, this place within me forever. Now look at it.

The area has some people.

Paine: A tourist attraction.

Rikku: Whose idea was that?

Yuna’s group finds and talks to Isaaru.

Isaaru: Yuna? You’ve changed so much, I hardly recognize you. Remember me?

Yuna: Of course I remember! It’s good to see you again, Isaaru.

Isaaru: I’m honored that you remembered me.

Yuna: Why are you here?

Isaaru: Ah, yes. I’ve been helping Cid with his work.

Rikku: Don‘t look at me.

Isaaru: I guide people through Zanarkand, once the most sacred of places.
People come from all over Spira. Sphere hunters, too.

Yuna: Oh.

Rikku: Ugh! What the heck is Pop thinking?

Isaaru: I can see this is upsetting you. But this is a place of great
historical importance for all of Spira.

Yuna: I know. But, still... I never wanted anyone else to stand there.

Isaaru: Yuna?

Yuna: Nothing. Forget it.

Isaaru: If you say so... Ah, I must be getting to work now. Please, take care,
Yuna.

Yuna’s group proceeds inside the dome. Before they can do so, they saw Pacce
and two kids on his side.

Pacce: Taro, Hana, you ready?

Taro: Um... What was the clue again?

Hana: Come on! It’s “key”!

Pacce: All right, let’s head out!

Taro & Hana: Yes, sir!

Inside the dome...

Taro: Which way?

Pacce: That way!

Hana: Yes!

Yuna’s group talks to Pacce.

Pacce: Lady Yuna! Do you remember me?

Yuna: Sure I do! You’re Pacce.

Pacce: You remembered me! This is Hana, and this is Taro.

Taro: Nice to meet you, Lady Yuna.

Yuna: What are you doing here? There are fiends around!

Hana: Fiends? Ha!

Pacce: Uh-huh! That’s right! We’re sphere hunters.

Pacce & Hana: The Kinderguardians!

Taro: The Kinderguardians!

Rikku: You here on some kind of treasure hunt?

Yuna: So “key” must be a clue to finding the treasure.

Pacce: Uh-huh. That’s right!

Hana: Shhh! We paid fifteen whole gil for that! Come on, let’s go!

Pacce: Kinderguardians, move out!

Pacce and his two friends move on.

Pacce: See ya, Lady Yuna.

Paine: Fifteen gil for a clue?

Yuna’s group moves on until they saw a Goon.

Goon: Come in. Come in. Do you read me? Oh, hey. I wanted to double-check that
clue. It’s “mon,” right? Nah, it’s just that I heard some kids saying it was
“key.” Yeah, I figured it was “mon.” Over and out.

Paine: The clues are “key” and “mon”?

Goon: Wha...? The Gullwings?

A monkey appeared.

Yuna: Key-mon?

Rikku: Monkey!

Goon: We won’t let you off so easily this time!

Yuna’s group fights the enemies. After defeating them, they move on to the next
area. In there...

Rikku: Um, the clue is “monkey,” right? Just a coincidence?

Yuna’s group saw a monkey making sounds. After that, Yuna’s group takes the
elevator down and they talk to Cid.

Cid: Welcome! Well, I’ll be. If it isn’t Yuna! Come to buy a clue from Uncle
Cid, have you?

Rikku: Fryd yna oui drehgehk! (What are you thinking!)

Cid: Huh?

Rikku: Turning this place into a gift shop? Hello!

Cid: What, you got a bone to pick?

Yuna: You bet I do!

Cid: So, what’s eatin’ ya?

Yuna: Well, I can’t really say, but… It’s…just not right.

Cid: Huh?

Rikku: It’s like turning the ruins of Home into a theme park!

Cid: Huh? I see your point.

Cid left the scene. Yuna’s group proceeds to Yunalesca’s chamber. In there...

Yuna: (narrating) Two years ago, we cast off our beliefs here. Our false hope.

Later...

????: Muahahahaha!

Rikku: Who’s there?

????: You have done well to make it this far, sphere hunters. But you will not
have the treasure you seek so easily.

Paine: So we fight.

????: If you want the treasure, you must speak the password!

Paine: Password?

Yuna: The clues?

Rikku: Oh, I know! The password is “monkey”!

????: Uh...yes, good. Uh, okay! So now tell me: What is the meaning of life?

Yuna: What? Is that you, Isaaru? Isaaru?

Rikku: Hey. That sort of does sound like Isaaru.

????: Is that your final answer?

Rikku: The jig is up! Show yourself, Isaaru!

????: Uh...fine.

Isaaru appeared.

Yuna: Um, what are you doing?

Isaaru: My job. I bring excitement to those who’ve come to see this sacred
place. I, too, once travelled with the hope of seeing this place someday.
Working here somehow fulfills that wish.

Yuna: I see...

Isaaru: I must apologize for the quiz. Here’s something for your trouble.

Yuna received Heart Reborn Garment Grid.

Isaaru: ‘Kay! Thanks for coming! And remember, the ruins of Zanarkand will be
waiting!

Isaaru left the scene.

Paine: Ex-summoners come in all flavors.

Yuna: (giggles) Apparently so.

Rikku: We done here?

Paine: The sphere oscillo-finder picked up a signal. There should still be a
sphere nearby.

Yuna: Oh.

Rikku: Right.

Paine: Okay, let’s try this again.

Yuna’s group moves on. In the area with a sphere...

Rikku: Aha! Found you!

A shaking can be heard and Guardian Beast appeared.

Paine: We’re not alone.

Rikku: Think we need a password?

Paine: How about “kick...its...ass.”

Yuna’s group fights Guardian Beast. After Yuna’s group defeats Guardian Beast...

Rikku: What? It’s only half a sphere.

Paine: All that...for nothing.

Rikku: Well, it can’t hurt to take it with us.

Yuna: (sighs) I can’t believe how much this place has changed.

Yuna’s group takes the sphere fragment and they board the Celsius. In the
Bridge...

Brother: Ehlusehk tydy! Gullwings, du ouin cdydeuhc! (Incoming data! Gullwings,
to your stations!)

Buddy: Rao, yfacusa. (Hey, awesome.)

Rikku: What’s awesome?

Buddy: We’re getting reports of an “awesome sphere”? Looks like it’s already
drawn quite a crowd. The reports are from Kilika Woods.

Yuna: I want that sphere.

Rikku: It’s as good as ours! Let’s scramble!

Brother: Who is the leader? I am! I give the orders around here!!

Paine: We’re listening.

Brother: Let’s go! Party! Party!

Yuna’s group proceeds to Kilika Island. In there...

Yuna: (narrating) Can you guess where this is? It’s Kilika Port. The Youth
League helped rebuild it. Now it’s a bustling town. At the time, everyone was
grateful. But lately, well, there have been signs of trouble. It seems that
tension is building between the Youth League and New Yevon.

Yuna’s group moves on. In the next area...

Yuna: I wonder what this “awesome sphere” is like.

Rikku: Well, it’s definitely awesome!

Yuna: It will be, won’t it!

Paine seems frustrated.

Paine: Keep this up and someone will beat us to it.

Rikku: Sorry. Sorry! Hey, wait up!

In the next area, Yuna’s group proceeds to Dona’s hut. Suddenly, Barthello went
out really fast as if thrown out.

Barthello: Dona!

Dona: My, my, my... Fine, have it your way.

Barthello: Dona!

Dona: Go on, leave.

Barthello: Dona...

Barthello sadly ran away. Yuna’s group went inside Dona’s hut.

Dona: Well, look who we have here.

Yuna: Good to see you.

Rikku: What’s with Barthello?

Dona: Nothing out of the ordinary. I am with the Youth League and he is with
New Yevon. It makes living together rather difficult.

Yuna: But you’ve been together so long...

Paine: To each his own.

Dona: Exactly. Butt out.

Yuna’s group moves on to the gate. The guards let Yuna’s group through. In the
next area, lot of people gathered together to see someone.

Yuna: These are all sphere hunters?

Paine: I don’t think so.

Rikku: Look over there. Who’s that?

Someone appeared and it is Nooj.

Paine: Nooj.

Yuna: Meyvn of the Youth League, right?

Nooj: Greetings, friends! An important sphere is hidden in Kilika Temple. A
sphere documenting the true history of Spira. We are here today to demand that
New Yevon make the contents of that sphere public. Yet, as always, the voice
seeking truth goes ignored. My friends, I ask you: why? Because New Yevon wants
to hide the truth! Just as the temples did before them! I tell you now, this
has gone on long enough! My friends, stand with me, and together we will bring
the truth back to the people.

The people cheered.

Nooj: But...let’s not overdo it. Our opponents aren’t as young as they used to
be.

Nooj left the scene and the people also left the scene. Later...

Yuna: Not exactly what I had expected.

Rikku: Hey, that’s our sphere! Oh, poopie! So what now? Call it quits?

Paine: Don’t know about you, but I could use an awesome sphere.

Yuna: Hmm. Okay! They can’t decide who it belongs to? I say we make it our own.
Right?

Rikku & Paine: Right!

Yuna’s group gave each other high fives. They move on. In the next area, people
are trying to get through, but the guards won’t let them through.

Citizen: Hand over the sphere! The temples have controlled Spira’s secrets long
enough!

Guard: Spheres? Secrets? What’s this about?

Citizen: Don’t play dumb! We know you’re guarding something!

Guard: Hey! We’re here to guard our families from rabble like you.

Citizen: What did you say?

Guard: I think it’s time you left.

Yuna’s group manages to sneak their way through the guards. After making it
near the temple...

Temple Priest: Which is why I keep telling you...

Dona: Shut up. Just give us the sphere and we’ll be on our way.

Temple Priest: I don’t know what you’re talking about.

Man: Hey! I found the sphere!

Dona: There you have it.

Suddenly, a rumbling can be heard.

Dona: What’s that?

YSLS-Zero appeared and scared many people away.

Temple Priest: I had a little something prepared for just such an occasion.
Nice knowing you!

Yuna’s group fights YSLS-Zero. After Yuna’s group destroys YSLS-Zero...

Rikku: How you like that?

Yuna: Not bad at all!

Paine said nothing.

Dona: Just what do you think you’re doing?

Yuna: Actually, we’re sphere hunters.

Dona: So?

Yuna: Gullwings, let’s go! Sorry, Dona, the sphere is ours.

The Celsius appeared. Yuna and Rikku left the scene and Paine takes the sphere
from the man who dropped it.

Paine: Tough luck.

Paine left the scene.

END OF CHAPTER 1

Later in the Celsius, Yuna’s group came to the bridge and Rikku is overexcited.

Rikku: Did you see their faces? They totally wet their pants!

Yuna: Maybe we overdid it?

Brother: “Overdid it”? There is no such thing! The Gullwings shall be notorious
throughout Spira!

Paine: They weren’t all that happy.

Rikku: Huh?

Paine; Don’t forget that notoriety can be a bad thing.

Brother: So what? I want to have fun!

Buddy: Just make sure you don’t do anything to land us in hot water, okay?

Rikku: Awww... Where’s the fun in being plain old regular sphere hunters?

Brother: Yeah! What she said!

Paine: Oh, no...

Yuna: What?

Shinra walks forward.

Shinra: Whenever Rikku and Brother agree...bad stuff happens.

Yuna: That...can’t be good.

Yuna talks to Shinra.

Yuna: How’d the sphere analysis go?

Shinra: Hmmm... It’s just a regular movie sphere. It doesn’t appear to have any
special functions. You wanna take a look?

Yuna: Sure.

We watch a movie of the sphere showing a machina and a young man who looks like
“him”.

????: You know, you’re all I can count on to save Lenne.

The sphere then shuts down. After that...

Brother: Fryd eh Spira ec dryd machina? (What in Spira is that machina?)

Buddy: Any ideas?

Shinra: Not a one. But, as machina go, it looks extremely dangerous. Definitely
a weapon.

Rikku: Yunie...it’s him.

Yuna: (narrating) Is it you? Or does he just look like you?

Brother: U tyr’d mega drec cbrana. (I don’t like this sphere.)

Yuna: (narrating) And...who’s this “Lenne”?

Later...

Brother: Gullwings! Front and center!

Yuna approaches closer.

Brother: So, uh... Let’s give back that sphere, what do you say?

Rikku: But we worked so hard to get it!

Brother: That thing is uber bad news.

Buddy: What if we donated the sphere to the study of Spira’s history? That’s
what being a sphere hunter was originally about, right?

Paine: It’s a little late to be bringing that up.

Rikku: Yeah! We already swiped it!

Brother: Well, I still don’t want it! We’re giving it back! Now!

Yuna nods “yes”.

Rikku: You don’t mind?

Yuna: I’ve seen it.

Buddy: It’s still pretty shameless to saunter up and give back the sphere we
just stole.

Brother: Oui pi xiead! (You be quiet!)

Paine: Our reputation is all but worthless if we do that. Our leader’s, too, no
less.

Brother: Crid ib! (Shut up!)

Everyone seemed puzzled and frustrated. Later...

Yuna: Well, now, this isn’t any fun at all.

Rikku: I really gotta let off some steam.

Buddy: Whaddaya got in mind?

Shinra: Why don’t we ask Yuna to dance?

Yuna: Dance?

Brother: Oh? That’s it! Yuna, you must dance! Our sanity depends on it!

Paine: That sounds like an order, Yuna.

Yuna: The exercise will do us good.

Brother: Whoopeeee!

Yuna: Hang tight while I get ready.

Yuna is on her way to the Cabin. Then, a sound can be heard.

Yuna: What’s that sound?

Brother: Ah, just some hitchhikers I picked up. They’re a colorful bunch.

Yuna proceeds to the Cabin and talks to Daraya.

Daraya: Mr. Brother welcomed us aboard at Kilika Port. Let us play ya a song o’
thanks!

Yuna: Actually, I’m singing tonight...

Daraya: Well then, let us accompany ye! Tha’s right up our alley! Joost help us
get ower tae the exit. Ay, we’re lookin’ forrit tae bein’ part o’ the show!

Yuna pushes Tobli and the three musicians into the elevator. After that...

Daraya: Right! Now we’re ready tae go!

Borra: Tonight your dance will make you one with the stars above!

Pukara: It’s time to go, time for the show!

Tobli: Splendid, simply splendid!

Yuna receives the Enterprise accessory. Later in the night, Yuna and Rikku
performs while the Gullwings sit down and enjoy the show and Paine shows
disinterest in the performance. Later, Yuna decides to take a break and sits
alone.

Yuna: Who’s Lenne? Why...why am I so mad? (shouting) Who the heck is Lenne!

Everyone stares at Yuna after her outburst.

Yuna: I’m going to go to bed.

Yuna goes to the Cabin and sleep. We watch a movie of Yuna having a dream where
she was running with Tidus and they were chased and cornered by soldiers with
bayonet rifles. While being cornered, Tidus looks at Yuna and Yuna has a tear
coming out of her right eye and then the soldiers started firing bullets at
Tidus and Yuna killing Tidus instantly and Yuna died later. After that, the
camera shows Yuna having a nightmare. Yuna woke up.

Yuna: What—

Paine: What “what”?

Yuna: It must’ve been a dream.

Paine: A dream’s a dream.

Rikku: Blame it on your new jammies.

Yuna proceeds to the Bridge. In there, Yuna joins in the briefing.

Yuna: What’s up?

Buddy: Returning the sphere is all well and good, but who do we return it to?

Shinra: With the Youth League and New Yevon, it’s a lose-lose situation.

Brother: What do you think, Yuna?

Yuna: I’ll follow your orders, Leader!

Brother: Uh... Aha! As leader, I order Yuna to decide!

Yuna: Hey, that’s cheating!

Yuna talks to Brother.

Brother: Where to?

Yuna: I’ve decided.

Rikku: New Yevon...well it’s got “Yevon” in its name. Enough said.

Paine: But the Youth League is reckless. They’re the ones picking the fights.

Brother: Well? WELL?

Yuna: Ummm...

READ THIS IF YOU CHOSE TO GIVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Yuna chose the Youth League.

Brother: Works for me! Let’s go with it! Gullwings, move out!

In Mushroom Rock Road, Yuna’s group and the Gullwings arrived. The Youth League
looks at them.

Rikku: Wow! They’re pulling out all the stops!

Yuna: I wonder why...

Paine: You’re the high summoner, remember?

Buddy: Who throws a welcome party for the people who ripped them off?

Brother: Tadyemc, tadyemc. Cruf cusa lmycc, syh. (Details, details. Show some
class, man.)

Shinra: Gullwings, GO! La-la-la-la-la! Gullwings, FIGHT! La-la-la-laaaa!

Yuna’s group and the Gullwings faces Nooj.

Yuna: We’d like to give you the sphere that you were looking for. Now that you
have this, you can stop the fighting in Kilika.

Nooj: How generous...and how sudden. Maybe you should start by introducing
yourself, High Sum—

Rikku: We’re the Gullwings.

Nooj: I see. Sphere hunters. In that case, I gratefully accept the sphere you
have brought. On behalf of the Youth League, I thank you. Everyone, three
cheers for the Gullwings!

The Youth League repeatedly shouts out “Gullwings”. Later inside the Youth
League HQ...

Nooj: So did you watch it?

Rikku: Hm?

Nooj: The sphere.

Rikku: Well um, you see... I, uh... Um, uh... Heheh?

Yuna: We did.

Nooj: Forget.

Yuna: I’m afraid I cannot.

Paine: Yuna! Don’t let him push you around.

Nooj: Some advice: That...thing... The colossus you saw is known as Vegnagun.
It possesses overwhelming destructive power. It must not be touched! Yet those
Yevon fools think they can control it. The Youth League will do whatever it
takes to make sure they do not get a chance to try. Trust me, you don’t want to
get involved.

Yuna: Tell me... Who was the man I saw in the sphere?

Nooj: I cannot say.

Yuna: I see.

Buddy ran in.

Buddy: Hey, we got a distress signal from the Celsius! Gullwings, we’re leaving!

READ THIS IF YOU CHOSE TO GIVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Yuna chose New Yevon.

Brother: Works for me! Let’s go with it! Gullwings, move out!

In Bevelle, the people there are bowing to Yuna’s group and the Gullwings.

Rikku: Wow! They’re pulling out all the stops!

Yuna: I wonder why…

Paine: You’re the high summoner, remember?

Buddy: (to Brother) Ymm draca Yevon pymteac yna sygehk sa hanjuic. (All these
Yevon baldies are making me nervous.)

Brother: Dyga ed ayco. Cruf cusa lmycc, syh. (Take it easy. Show some class,
man.)

Yuna’s group enters the temple. Inside, Baralai appeared at the scene.

Baralai: Gullwings, I welcome you.

Yuna pulls out the sphere.

Yuna: This is the sphere from Kilika Temple.

Baralai: Thank you. It’s not every day you meet hunters who are willing to
bring back a sphere they stole.

Yuna: Well, it’s a long story.

Baralai: You helped us keep the sphere out of the hands of the Youth League.
I’m willing to leave it at that. You’ve been of great help, High Summoner.

Rikku: Excuse me! Her name’s Yuna, and she’s a Gullwing!

Baralai: Ah, forgive me. By the way, have you seen the contents of the sphere?

Yuna: Yes.

Baralai: Then…I suppose I have a little explaining to do. What you saw is
Vegnagun, a weapon built roughly one thousand years ago. It’s currently being
held under tight security. The location is, of course, highly classified.

Paine: I see Yevon still like its secrets.

Baralai: True. The Youth League would like nothing more than to use Vegnagun to
control Spira. But do not be afraid. We will stop them at all costs.

Yuna: Tell me… Who was the man I saw in the sphere?

Baralai: Hmm… I couldn’t say.

Yuna: I see.

Suddenly, Buddy came in at the scene.

Buddy: Hey, we got a distress signal from the Celsius! Gullwings, we’re leaving!

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Later in the Celsius...

Barkeep: Intruders? Anything mishing? Shtill inveshtitagating.

Shinra and Buddy arrived at the scene with Yuna’s group and Barkeep.

Shinra: It’s official. We’ve been burgled. The broken sphere from the Zanarkand
Ruins is missing.

Buddy: Looks like the burglar left us a present.

Buddy views the sphere.

Leblanc: Who’s on top now, Dullwings? It’ll be a thousand years before you can
take on the mighty Leblanc!

Ormi and Logos laughs and the sphere stops viewing.

Paine: She got us.

Yuna: Oh, poopie!

Rikku: Yuna! Don’t talk like that!

Yuna: I’m just copying you!

Paine: That’s nice. And?

Yuna: We’re gonna take it back! No one messes with us!

Paine: And what about Vegnagun?

Yuna: (narrating) I didn’t want to get too involved. Not like when I was a
summoner... (talking) We’re forgetting who we are! We’re sphere hunters! The
Gullwings!

Yuna’s group gave each other high fives.

Brother: That’s right! We steal back what is stolen. It is the law of the
sphere hunter! Now we go to Chateau Leblanc! We attack in the name of honor!

Shinra: ...get our hineys kicked in the name of honor.

Yuna: Maybe we can sneak in in disguise?

Brother: That’s it! Yuna, you are brilliant!

Rikku: So, we have to fly around till we find Leblanc’s gang—

Paine: Beat them up and steal their uniforms. Three of them.

Yuna’s group proceeds to Kilika Island. In there…

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Dona: The Gullwings, was it not? Sphere hunters that give back spheres. Don’t
you think that’s a little odd? Of course, we’re glad you’re on the Youth
League’s side, but still…

Yuna’s group talks to Dona again.

Dona: We’re having a little spat with New Yevon. Just what I needed. No rest
for the weary, dear. You may want to keep your distance from the island for a
little while.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Dona: The Gullwings, was it not? Sphere hunters that give back spheres. Don’t
you think that’s a little odd? If you’re going to side with New Yevon, you
might want to leave before something unfortunate happens.

Yuna’s group talks to Dona again.

Dona: I’m telling you this for your own good: Leave.

Youth League Member 1: I thought you were different!

Youth League Member 2: You Yevon tools!

Youth League Member 3: Go back where you belong!

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Besaid Island. In
there, Yuna’s group speaks to the Aurochs.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Datto: So you gave the sphere to the Youth League, ya?

Jassu: Ya, we knew you were on our side!

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Datto: So you returned the sphere to New Yevon?

Jassu: Why’d you do a thing like that?

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna: What do you mean?

Datto: The Besaid Aurochs have all joined the Youth League.

Jassu: Well, officially, at least. And, uh, Wakka hasn’t joined up yet.

Datto: Can’t blame him, ya? His kid’s popping out any minute you know. Now’s
not the time for him to be fussing around with politics.

????: Fussing, you say?

Beclem appeared.

Beclem: I am Beclem. I’ve been dispatched to Besaid by Youth League
headquarters. I’m here to pound some fight into these pathetic slackers.

Jassu: He’s a hundred times stricter than Wakka.

Beclem: You must be awfully confident in your strength if you’re skipping
training just to flap your lips like that. So, I guess you won’t mind showing
me what you’re all really made of, then.

The Aurochs mumbles to each other.

Beclem: Is no one among you man enough to break my record? You’re pathetic.

Rikku: Okay, he’s creeping me out.

Yuna: Seriously.

Datto: See you later, Yuna!

Datto does his bow.

Beclem: Stop that at once! The age of temples and prayers is over. It’s about
time you let go of those musty old traditions. There’s no need to bow down to
summoners either. Yes, summoners are a thing of the past.

Rikku: Hold it right there! Whose Calm do you think this is, buster?

Beclem: There are no more aeons to summon. Summoners are worthless now.

Yuna: You will take those words back.

Beclem: I will. If you succeed in proving your worth to me. Well, what do you
say?

Yuna: You’re on, Beclem.

Beclem: The way you twaddled on before, you had best break my record. Now.
Begin!

Yuna begins the Gunner’s Gauntlet. After Yuna succeeded in breaking Beclem’s
record…

Rikku: Take that!

Beclem: Hm. Skill you may have, but I find it hard to believe you defeated Sin!
You obviously had some help.

Yuna: I did, from my friends. My pilgrimage was successful because my friends
and the aeons supported me along the way. And they still do. Memories of the
time we spent together make me strong. I won’t stand here and let you call that
strength useless.

Beclem: Must your kind always prattle on about your precious memories?

Beclem left the scene.

Rikku: He’s got some nerve!

Paine: Sore loser.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Luca. In there, there is a
news broadcast going on.

Shelinda: Hello, and good afternoon, Luca! This is Shelinda, bringing you all
the latest news from throughout Spira. These days, everyone’s talking about the
groups battling throughout Spira for control of the spheres. Let’s start with
the Youth League. From its leader Meyvn Nooj on down, their ranks are made up
mostly of former Crusaders. Fresh off the attack on Kilika Temple, the Youth
League is sending shockwaves throughout Spira. Pairing off against them is none
other than New Yevon. All eyes were on them after the New Yevon chairman’s
sudden resignation. Chaos seemed inevitable. But their newly appointed leader,
Praetor Baralai, has held them together with utmost finesse. Another group
turning a lot of heads is the Machine Faction, an Al Bhed organization. They’ve
managed to distance themselves from the sphere struggle embroiling Spira. But
their unmatched technological prowess could well be enough to dramatically
shift the balance of power. And let’s not forget the Leblanc Syndicate, the
gang with a style all its own. Headquartered at Chateau Leblanc in Guadosalam,
its agents span the globe. But lately there’s one group in particular that’s
been drawing all kinds of attention. That’s right, the only group led by a high
summoner, the Gullwings! And now, here’s today’s special guest! High Summoner
Yuna!

Yuna: Huh?

Paine: Break a leg.

The camera shows some writing on the screen then the screen shows Shelinda and
Yuna again.

Shelinda: Lady Yuna, your concert the other day was nothing short of
spectacular!

Yuna: Well, it was sort of me up there, but not exactly…

Shelinda: Puzzling words, to be sure. And speaking of puzzling, why the sudden
career change to sphere hunting? It sounds like you caused quite a stir with
that disappearing act you pulled on Besaid.

Yuna: And I’m very sorry about that.

Shelinda: Rumor has it you left the island looking for clues about a certain
young man. Anything you can share with us?

Yuna: That’s right.

Shelinda: So, tell us about him.

Yuna: It’s a long story.

Shelinda: I’m sure it is! One can only imagine the fascinating tales that led
to you becoming the leader of the Gullwings.

Brother: Hold it right there! I’m the leader. Me! Gullwings! We rock you!

Buddy: Whoa! This thing on?

Shinra: It’s taping two morons right now. This is just a toy compared to the
things I’ve invented.

Shelinda: Tell us, is it true that the Gullwings have thrown their support
behind the Youth League?

Brother: That statement is…kind of true. But not really! No!

Buddy: Uh, we don’t wanna get caught up in other people’s problems.

Shelinda: So many questions left to ask, but I’m afraid we’re out of time. Our
thanks to today’s guests, High Summoner Yuna and the Gullwings!

The broadcast ended. After that…

Paine: Not bad.

Yuna: You should have joined in, too.

Paine: It was more fun watching.

Shelinda: Lady Yuna, great interview. Thank you so much for helping me out.
This isn’t much, but consider it a token of my gratitude.

Yuna received the Covetous Garment Grid.

Rikku: So, how long you been doing this?

Shelinda: Well after the Calm came, the temples were in decline. At first, I
thought the best thing I could do would be to help the temples get back on
their feet. But everyone just ordered me around. I got tired of it.

Yuna: You couldn’t just tell them “no”?

Shelinda: That’s the part of me I wanted to change! I made up my mind to leave
the temple and come here to Luca. They needed people for this, and they asked
me to help…so, here I am.

Paine: Another job you were “asked” to do?

Shelinda: I suppose nothing about me has really changed after all.

After a short pause…

Shelinda: I gotta run! My next assignment is about to start. See you later,
Lady Yuna!

Shelinda left the scene.

Paine: She complains, but you can tell she enjoys it.

Rikku: Sounds a bit like Yunie, don’t you think?

Yuna: Really?

Rikku and Paine stands near a restaurant table and chairs.

Rikku: Dr. P, care to give us your opinion?

Paine: The hardest person to know is yourself.

Yuna: Hey, cut that out!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Mi’ihen Highroad. In
there, Yuna’s group visits the Travel Agency.

Clerk: I’m sorry, but you won’t be able to go chocobo riding.

????: I see. Sorry to bother you…

Yuna’s group follows the girl outside and talks to her.

????: You aren’t Lady Yuna, be any chance?

Yuna: I am.

????: I don’t suppose you remember me, do you?

Yuna: I think I remember… You can’t be…Calli?

Calli: That’s right! You really do remember me!

Yuna: (narrating) Remember Calli? We met her two years ago, on the Mi’ihen
Highroad. The little girl that was so looking forward to the Calm. (speaking)
What are you doing here?

Calli: I came to ride a chocobo. I’ve wanted to ride one for as long as I can
remember.

Rikku: Hmm, you don’t see too many chocobos these days. Everybody rides hovers.

Calli: Yeah… On top of that, I hear there’s a chocobo-hunting fiend prowling
around. This isn’t a very good place for poor little chocobos anymore.

Rikku: Maybe they’re gone for good?

Suddenly, a chocobo appeared from behind Yuna’s group and Calli.

Yuna: Cho…

Rikku: Cho!

Paine: Cho?

Calli: It’s a chocobo!

Yuna’s group decided to catch a chocobo.

Rikku: It went this way!

Yuna and Paine follows Rikku. In the next area, they saw a chocobo.

Rikku: Ooh! There it is! Stay close to me. I’ll get that chocobo!

Yuna’s group ran forward after the chocobo. Rikku kept saying that the chocobo
went the side areas, but Yuna doesn’t agree and they move on to the next area.
In the next area…

Rikku: There it is! What did I tell ya?

The chocobo is standing in the center.

Rikku: I’ll watch the far end. No chocobos’ll get out that way.

Paine: I’ve got this end.

Yuna: And that leaves me to catch it.

Yuna tries to make the chocobo exhausted by blocking its way. After doing so,
the chocobo jumped over Rikku and got away into another area.

Rikku: Maybe it’s just me…but this is starting to chap my hide. Come back here,
bird-brain!

In the next area, Yuna’s group searches the first side area.

Rikku: Oh, where’d it go this time?

Later…

Rikku: Aha! Look, over there!

Yuna’s group saw a chocobo.

Rikku: Let’s hurry!

In the next side area…

Yuna: Huh? It’s gone…

Paine: For such scrawny lets, it sure can run.

Rikku: Grrrrrr… Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! That way, that way! Way over there!

Yuna’s group saw the chocobo in the other side area. Yuna and Paine ran ahead
and Rikku jumped down from a standing shell and landed on something. They catch
up. The chocobo ran the other way after Yuna’s group approached the side area.
In the road, Yuna’s group approach the chocobo and it ran away.

Rikku: There’s got to be a better way than this.

Paine: Well, we won’t get anywhere running after him. We need to think of
something else.

Yuna’s group talks to a man who knows something about the chocobo. Then they
talk to a hover pilot and get assistance to catch the chocobo. Yuna’s group
blocked the chocobo’s way and later, the hover blocked the chocobo’s way, and
finally, the chocobo is surrounded by Yuna’s group and the hover.

Yuna: Finally!

After Yuna’s group successfully  caught a chocobo, a man running in desperation
appeared.

Man: Hey! Your friend’s in hot water!

The screen switches to Calli trying to catch a chocobo and however, she fell to
the floor of the shell and is unconscious. Then, a Chocobo Eater appeared and
is ready to kill. The screen switches to Yuna’s group.

Rikku: Yunie, come on!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the next area. In there, they saw the Chocobo Eater
about to eat Calli. Yuna tried to jump down, but Paine blocked her way.

Paine: You can’t!

Yuna: But there isn’t time!

Clasko: Hyaa!

Clasko appeared summoning two armored chocobos towards the Chocobo Eater.

Clasko: We’ll try and buy you some time! Lady Yuna, please hurry!

Rikku: Piece of cake!

Yuna: Let’s go!

Yuna’s group approaches the lower level of the road and meet up with Clasko as
his chocobos knocked the Chocobo Eater down.

Clasko: You guys take it from here!

Clasko left. Calli woke up and waved at Yuna’s group for help.

Yuna: Let’s clean up!

Yuna’s group fights Chocobo Eater. After Yuna’s group defeats Chocobo Eater,
Calli rides on the chocobo.

Yuna: She looks happy.

Paine: Whatever works for her.

Yuna: Shall we?

Yuna’s group moves on and Rikku catches up. They board the Celsius. They then
go back to Mi’ihen Highroad and talk to Calli and Clasko.

Clasko: So…I suppose you’d let me on board along with Calli, would you?

Yuna: All aboard!

Clasko: I am in your debt, Lady Yuna!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius with Clasko Calli and a chocobo. Next, Yuna’s
group proceeds to Mushroom Rock Road. In the entrance…

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Youth League Member 1: Hey, it’s the Gullwings!

Youth League Member 2: Well, I’ll be. So you really are gonna join the Youth
League!

Yaibal: Lady Yuna! Thank you!

Yuna: Umm…for what?

Yaibal: Surely this is the day that you will honor us by joining the Youth
League? What an occasion! I have long dreamed that this day would come.

Youth League Members: Sir!

The Youth League members left the scene.

Yuna: Well actually, that’s not why we’re here…

Yaibal: Don’t worry, the Youth League will give the Gullwings a grand welcome.
Please proceed to headquarters immediately! If you’ll excuse me, I have duties
to attend to.

Yuna’s group moves on. Yuna’s group are being protected by the Youth League
members as they keep the enemies away from Yuna’s group. Yuna’s group received
a transmission.

Buddy: Buddy here. We’re picking up some weak sphere waves near you.

Rikku: Hm, I don’t see anything.

Buddy: It’s probably in the ravine. Do you see a way down?

Yuna: Okay, we’ll take a look.

Brother: Be careful!

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Youth League Member 1: It’s those sphere thieves, the Gullwings! Watch
yourselves!

Youth League Members 1, 2 and 3: Sir!

Youth League Member 1: Red alert!

Yaibal: What were you thinking, Lady Yuna? How could you give the sphere to
Yevon? Some of the more hotheaded among us have convinced themselves that the
Gullwings are the enemy!

Paine: You’ve got hasty friends.

Yaibal: Exactly! They are too hasty in their judgment. But I still have faith
in you, Lady Yuna. I’ll run to headquarters right away and ask them to call off
the red alert! Farewell!

Yaibal left the scene.

Rikku: When does he find time to breathe?

Yuna’s group fights off the edgy Youth League members.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna’s group proceeds down the ravine to the Den of Woe. In there, they saw
Nooj.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Nooj: Hmph.

Yuna: Is something the matter?

Nooj: Oh. It’s you. As you can see, this place has been sealed. But just this
one isn’t enough.

Yuna: That’s the end of that, then.

Rikku: No. It’s not, Yunie.

Yuna: Oh! I know! Why don’t you let the Gullwings take on this mission?

Nooj: You’ll find the other spheres?

Yuna: On my honor as a sphere hunter! Of course, we won’t do it for free…

Nooj: Very well, I leave it in your hands. Here, hold on to this sphere.

Rikku: Thanks!

Just when Rikku thought Nooj was going to give her the sphere, Nooj walks
towards Paine.

Nooj: Perhaps this is fate?

Paine: I don’t think so.

Nooj gave Paine the sphere and left the scene. Later…

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Nooj: Hm. Well… I see the Gullwings have guts. Our league members are out for
blood. This is no place for pawns of Yevon.

Yuna: Pawns? The Gullwings work for no one!

Nooj: That is just a problem. The Calm comes and suddenly Spira is full of kids
playing pirates.

Rikku: (clenching her fists) Why, you!

Paine stopped Rikku.

Paine: Rikku.

Nooj: (to Paine) Never thought you’d end up a sphere hunter.

Nooj gave Paine a sphere.

Nooj: It’s yours. Happy hunting.

Nooj left the scene.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Rikku: Whoa, whoa, whoa! You know him?

Paine: Why should you care?

Rikku: Come on, there was something between you two, right?

Paine: (frustrated) Rikku. I’ll say this once, okay? I consider you friends,
and I trust you. I even respect you. All right? I would think that’d be enough.

Rikku: Well, yeah, but…don’t you ever want to know more about your friends?

Paine: Not really.

Rikku: (holding Paine’s hand) Well I do. I do wanna know more about you.

Paine: What for? Who cares what happened in the past?

Yuna: There was something! Come on, Paine! You can tell us! What happened?

Paine: (frustrated) You disappoint me, Yuna. I thought you were above all that.

Yuna: Well, not anymore. I like asking questions.

Paine: You’ll lose friends.

Yuna: You think so Never mind, then.

Rikku: Aww! And I was looking forward to hearing the good stuff! Confessions of
a shady past!

Paine: (frustrated) You’re a pain. Minus four respect points, Rikku.

Rikku: Uh-oh, how many points left?

Paine: Forty-seven.

Rikku: That’s not a whole lot, is it?

Paine approaches the sealed door.

Paine: Why don’t you figure out how to get in here instead of inside my head?

Yuna: Maybe we need spheres like that one to open it?

Paine: It might open if we find them all.

Rikku: I kinda still wanna know what happened.

Paine: That’s forty-six.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Yuna’s group proceeds to the Youth League headquarters. Later in the Youth
League headquarters…

Elma: Lady Yuna! So…is it true that once the Gullwings join the Youth League,
you’ll be in charge of your own division?

Yuna: Let me guess, Yaibal?

Elma: Everyone’s talking.

Rikku: This story just keeps getting better and better.

Yuna: We just helped out the one time, really.

Elma: I knew it. I thought it sounded a bit strange. I mean, you seem like the
kind of person that decides things on their own and then just does whatever
they planned to do. I can’t picture you joining an organization or an army or
anything like that.

Yuna: Do I really come across that way?

Rikku: Um, hello?

Lucil: Just as I thought.

Lucil appeared at the scene.

Lucil: I have reprimanded Yaibal for spreading such ridiculous rumors. It’s
highly unprofessional.

Elma: Yeah, but think how great it’d be if it were true.

Paine: Still making the pitch?

Lucil: No. Absolutely not. I know that words alone are not enough to sway Lady
Yuna’s heart. The heart is not moved from without; but rather, when the time is
right, it moves of its own accord from within. Finding the place where one
belongs is, by nature, a personal journey.

Elma: Isn’t Commander Lucil amazing? Such wisdom!

Lucil: I learned it all from my troops. Excuse us, we have a strategy session
to attend. Farewell.

Elma: Come and see us again, okay?

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

While continuing to fight off the edgy Youth League members, Yuna’s group saw
Elma.

Elma: Lady Yuna, say it ain’t so. You didn’t really give the sphere to New
Yevon, did you?

Yuna: Sorry.

Elma: What did you go and do that for? All right, men! We stop ‘em here.

Two Youth League members appeared at the scene.

Rikku: Hey, whoa… You’re gonna fight us?

Elma: I am a captain, after all. Don’t wanna set a bad example by running away!

Yuna’s group fights Elma and two Youth League members. After that, they move
on. In the area with the lift to Youth League Headquarters…

Rikku: It’s no good. This thing’s not gonna budge.

Yuna: I bet Yaibal did this. He didn’t want us to get involved in the fight.

Rikku: Do you think he’ll get in trouble for it?

Paine: Bet he’s feeling the hurt.

Later, Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Buddy.

Buddy: Buddy here. Want us to come pick you up?

Rikku: Whatcha think? Ready to leave?

Yuna nods.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Moonflow. In there,
they talk to Tobli.

Tobli: But the tickets aren’t selling! We’ll end up with an empty house! That’s
like a full house with none of the people! What do you say? Will you help me?
Sell tickets, that is. I’ll cut the base price in half! Just sell, sell, sell
for big, big profits!

Rikku: Ooh! Come on, Yunie. Let’s give it a shot!

Yuna: Okay, sound like fun!

Tobli: With the Gullwings in charge, we’ll sell out for sure! Imagine the
crowds! The rest is up to you.

Yuna’s group begins selling tickets. After Yuna’s group successfully sold all
the tickets…

Tobli: Well, did you sell? The tickets, I mean.

Rikku: You better believe it!

Yuna: Every last one!

Tobli: Splendid, simply splendid! Did you hear that, everybody? Oh yes, oh yes,
before I forget. I’ve got to pay you your profits!

Yuna’s group got paid some Gils.

Tobli: Lastly, a little bonus for selling all the tickets.

Yuna’s group received Muscle Belt and Seething Cauldron Garment Grid.

Paine: I guess it’s worth trying anything.

Tobli: Yup-yup. It was an absolutely amicable arrangement. Everybody’s happy!

Rikku: We’re really looking forward to the show!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Guadosalam. In there,
Yuna’s group tries to enter Chateau Leblanc, but the Goons blocked the entrance.

Goon: Oh, look, the Dullwings. You’re not getting in here, see?

Yuna: But Leblanc broke into our airship!

Goon: Anything goes for the Great Leblanc!

Yuna’s group got frustrated and left the scene. They board the Celsius and
proceed to Thunder Plains. In there, they talk to Cid.

Yuna: Uncle Cid? What are you doing out here?

Cid: What, ya blind? Can’t ya see I’m trying to sulk?

Rikku: (frustrated) Come on, Yunie, let’s go.

Yuna: But…

Rikku: Leave him!

Later…

Yuna: I wonder what’s wrong…

Rikku: It’s Zanarkand. He’s all bent out of shape ‘cause you told him off.

Paine: That’s mature.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Macalania Woods. In
there, they talk to a Hypello.

Hypello: Hello, Gullwings. Good to shee yoo.

Rikku: Oh, it’s Tobli’s assistant.

Hypello: Would yoo mind doing ush a favor?

Paine: What kind of favor?

Hypello: Chief’s throwing a feshtibble. Shinging and danshing and
shellabebration? We’re sheeking musishuns for a troupe, yesh? Where could they
be?

Yuna: So you want us to help you find them?

Hypello: We ish counting on yoo, Gullwings?

Yuna: Shure, why not?

Hypello: Thank yoo. If yoo find musishun, give them this letter, yesh?

Yuna’s group moves on and later found Bayra. Yuna’s group talks to Bayra.

Bayra: What business do you have with me?

Yuna: We have a letter from someone named Tobli.

Rikku: Do you think you can help him out?

Bayra: I must speak with my friends. It is not my right to decide for them. A
moment, please.

Bayra plays his harp and the woods darkened a little.

Bayra: How strange. I cannot hear their voices. Their minds must be closed.

The woods lightened again.

Yuna: What do you mean?

Bayra: The spirits of my friends often become butterflies and drift through the
woods. If it is no trouble, why don’t you seek them out and ask them yourself?

Yuna finds and talks to Donga.

Donga: Huh? What can I do for ye?

Yuna: Well…

Yuna told Donga everything.

Donga: Ay, ay. I can help ye! If it’s music tha ye’re after, joost leave it tae
me and the lads!

Donga disappeared at the scene. Yuna’s group moves on and they found Pukutak.

Pukutak: Oh dear, oh my, you startled me! Whatever could the problem be?

Yuna: I have a favor to ask.

Pukutak: No, I do not mind at all! We’ll play our songs and have a ball!

Yuna’s group goes back to the area with Bayra, Donga and Pukutak. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Bayra.

Bayra: My friends do not seem to object. We will help your Tobli.

Pukutak: We shall present a great event!

Donga: We’ll give ‘em all a real gas, ye’ll see, eh?

Bayra: Yes. It will be a brilliant finale for our doomed kind.

Yuna: Doomed?

Pukutak: If only all the fayth had stayed, the woods would never ever fade...

Donga: But it looks like we’ll be meetin’ our end someday soon.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Calm Lands. In there…

Clasko: This is it. Something tells me this is where I’ll find my calling! I am
in your debt, Lady Yuna!

Clasko runs off to the cave east of Calm Lands.

Before Yuna’s group follows Clasko, they talk to Lian and Ayde Ronso.

Lian: High Summoner Yuna, I am Lian Ronso. We have not met.

Yuna: Nice to meet you, Lian. And this is?

Lian: Ayde Ronso.

Yuna: Hello Ayde.

Ayde nods and grunts.

Lian: We are happy to meet you. Lian and Ayde hear many stories of Lady Yuna.
Elder Kimahri tells of your journey together. But please, do not speak to elder
of meeting Lian and Ayde today.

Yuna: Why not?

Rikku: Oh! You must be the two kids who left Mt. Gagazet, right? Kimahri’s
really worried.

Paine: Should we take them back?

Lian and Ayde walked away.

Yuna: Yeah.

Rikku: Too late!

Yuna: What?

Lian and Ayde ran away.

Rikku: They can really move!

Yuna’s group follows Clasko. Later at the cave…

Clasko: Aww, now what am I supposed to do? I was sure this would be the perfect
spot, but…it’s infested with fiends!

Paine: I get the feeling he wants something.

Yuna’s group talks to Clasko.

Clasko: If only there weren’t any friends here… Argh! I’m so close, so close!

Yuna’s group decides to help Clasko with his problems. They went inside the
cave and are defeating the fiends. Then, Yuna’s group saw Clasko on the floor
and Yuna’s group fights and defeats Blue Elementals. After that…

Clasko: Oh, thank you so much! At last my dream can come true!

Rikku: What dream?

Clasko: I’m going to start a chocobo ranch! No one will bother me here. I can
finally raise chocobos in peace.

Yuna: Good luck!

Before Yuna’s group could leave…

Clasko: Oh, no! I can’t raise anything without a chocobo!

Paine: You’ve got your work cut out for you.

Yuna’s group decides to go back to Clasko and upon talking to him, Clasko gave
Yuna’s group some Greens to catch a chocobo. In one enemies encounter, they
caught a chocobo by feeding it Green. After that, they board the Celsius. They
proceed to Zanarkand Ruins. In there…

Yuna: Looks like business is booming.

Rikku: What’s Pop thinking?

Yuna’s group proceeds to the dome. Inside, they talk to Isaaru.

Isaaru: Well, hello.

Rikku: How’s work?

Isaaru: It’s a never ending struggle. As you can see, the monkeys are
multiplying. They were harassing the tourists. We had to close down.

Rikku: Well, I guess this will teach Pop a lesson, at least.

Isaaru: Cid’s not here anymore. After your last visit, he dropped everything
and took off. I don’t know where to. Well, I must be going.

Isaaru left the scene.

Yuna: (to the monkey) Now, you behave yourselves.

Rikku: Hey, if there were more of these little guys, you think the place would
empty out?

Paine: It just might.

Yuna’s group does some monkey mating. After doing this, Yuna’s group proceeds
to Djose Temple. In Djose Temple, Yuna’s group moved on to the highroad and saw
two Fem-Goons.

Fem-Goon 1: That’s weird. Where did we drop that thing? We gotta find that
sphere or the boss’ll be furious! We might even...get the heel!

Fem-Goon 2: Why don’t you stop complaining and help me look?

Yuna: Hey, did you hear that? Let’s find it first!

Paine: Someone’s turning Yuna into a bad girl.

Rikku: Who?

Yuna’s group later found a dressphere. After that...

Ormi: So that’s where it was! Sorry for the trouble. I appreciate yous finding
it for us, though.

Rikku won’t give the dressphere to Ormi.

Ormi: What? You’re not giving it back?

Yuna’s group nodded no and refuses to give the dressphere to Ormi.

Ormi: The nerve!

Logos: The Gullwings!

Ormi: These meanies won’t give me back the sphere!

Logos: So then we take it back.

Ormi: Ah!

Logos: And on that note... Take it back!

Yuna’s group fights Ormi, Logos, and Fem-Goon. After Yuna’s group wins the
fight, Ormi and Logos got away and Yuna’s group liberated a Syndicate Uniform.
Later back at the Celsius, Yuna’s group takes the next destination to Bikanel
Desert. In there…

Picket: Tyrkih! Tyrkih! Cicbeleuic cekhym tadaldat! (Danger! Danger! Suspicious
signal detected!)

Yuna’s group talks to Nhadala.

Nhadala: Oh, before you start digging, I’d really like you to go check out the
Oasis for me. Some strange stuff’s been washing up there lately. I’d appreciate
it if you looked into it.

Yuna talks to the pilot.

Pilot: So, she’s got you on another errand, now, has she? I heard there’ve been
some weird folks hanging out around the Oasis. Better make sure you’re ready
before heading out there.

Yuna’s group talks to the pilot again.

Pilot: Where can I take you?

Yuna: Oasis.

Yuna’s group was taken to the oasis. In there, they saw a dressphere.

Rikku: Look! A sphere!

Yuna takes the dressphere.

Logos: Well, fancy meeting you here. You can lead a Gullwing to water, but you
can’t make it drink!

Rikku: Ummm?

Paine: Say, those are nice uniforms.

Logos: Enough of this nonsense!

Yuna’s group fights Logos and 2 Fem-Goons. After Yuna’s group wins the fight,
they liberated another Syndicate Uniform and returned to the Celsius. Their
next destination is Mt. Gagazet. In there, Yuna’s group talks to Kimahri.

Kimahri: Kimahri sorry.

Yuna: Sorry about what?

Kimahri: Kimahri look for sphere for Yuna. But Kimahri find nothing. Kimahri
disappoint Yuna.

Yuna: It’s all right, Kimahri. Of course, I’m happy that you tried to help, but
Yuna has to deal with Yuna problems.

Kimahri: Kimahri search mountain long time. But still one place Kimahri not
look. Fayth Scar rises high on mountain. Scar is sacred ground which Ronso not
tread.

Paine: Might still be some spheres up there.

Kimahri: Summoners no longer climb mountain. Now only sphere hunters come.
Kimahri worry hunters defile sacred ground.

Rikku: Do you think it’s Leblanc and her goons?

Yuna: Maybe we should check. Is that okay?

Kimahri: Kimahri trust Yuna. Kimahri not worry.

Yuna’s group proceeds to Fayth Scar. Upon arrival...

Yuna: Must be up ahead...

Yuna’s group approaches closer to the cliffs.

Rikku: (whining) You mean we’re supposed to climb this?

Paine: No wonder the Ronso never come here.

Yuna: Look!

A Fem-Goon appeared and jumped up the cliffs. Yuna’s group proceeds to the top
cliff. In the area above the hot springs, Yuna’s group saw two Fem-Goons below.

Fem-Goon 1: That water felt great! Can you believe there’s a hot spring in a
place like this?

Fem-Goon 2: But isn’t this supposed to be sacred Ronso ground? Maybe this
wasn’t such a god idea...

Fem-Goon 1: What? You think some Ronso boogie man is gonna come get you? Better
that than the boss, know what I mean?

Ormi appeared.

Ormi: Hey! You two been slacking off?

Fem-Goon 1: No, we were, uh, getting ready for duty. Just trying to, uh,
rejuvenate, sir.

The rock platform that Yuna’s group are standing on falls into the hot springs
and Ormi and the 2 Fem-Goons panicked and ran away.

Yuna: What’s this?

Rikku: A hot spring?

Paine: Were those Leblanc’s goons?

Rikku: Look! They forgot something!

Yuna’s group liberated the third Syndicate Uniform.

Rikku: That sure was easy.

Yuna: Well, as long as we’re here...

Rikku: On sacred ground?

Paine: No one’s looking.

Later, Yuna’s group in their swimsuits bathe in the hot springs.

Yuna: This feels great.

Rikku: Hmm... What have we here?

Yuna: What?

Rikku: Hmm... Whatever. I know who’s got it goin’ on!

Yuna: Excuse me!

Rikku tried to approach Paine.

Paine: Stay away!

Rikku: Who-hoa!

Paine: Wanna get hurt?

Rikku: (to Yuna) You should check out Paine?

Paine gets up in frustration. The screen blacks out.

Paine: Hurt time!

Rikku: You want some?

Rikku gets up and is about to start a play fight.

Yuna: Ooh! Let me help!

Yuna gets up and holds Rikku.

Paine: Where were we?

Rikku: I didn’t mean it!

Paine & Yuna: Too late!

While play fighting, Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Brother.

Brother: Yuna, what’s all the noise?

Yuna: Just taking a little dip.

Brother: Y meddma dip! (A little dip!) Code pink! I’ll be there right now!

Brother can be heard knocked out.

Yuna: Brother?

Buddy: Don’t worry, I knocked him out.

Rikku: (short laugh) Maybe we should get out. I’m getting all pruney!

Yuna: I really needed that.

Yuna’s group changes to their original clothes and they move on. In the next
area...

Fem-Goon 1: We’ll be taking that uniform back!

Fem-Goon 2: If we lose it, Leblanc will give us the heel!

Yuna’s group fights and defeats the 2 Fem-Goons. After that, as they are about
to exit Fayth Scar...

Ormi: Lousy Gullwings! Falling down on people like that. Gave me a little
surprise, that’s all.

Paine: For a little surprise, you sure took a while to come back.

Ormi: Who asked you!

Yuna’s group fights Ormi. After Yuna’s group wins the fight, Ormi retreated.
Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Brother.

Brother: This is Brother! How is everything?

Yuna: Mission accomplished! We found ourselves a uniform.

Brother: Roger! We’re on our way!

Yuna’s group heads back to the Celsius. In there, Yuna’s group all wear their
Syndicate Uniforms.

Yuna: Well?

Brother: It’s perfect!

Rikku: We’re off to Chateau Leblanc!

Paine: Let’s settle the score.

Yuna’s group proceeds to Guadosalam. In there...

Yuna: I hope this works.

Paine: Worry after we’re caught.

Rikku: Okie-dokie. Let’s change.

Yuna: Okay!

Yuna’s group changes to their Syndicate Uniforms. Then they proceed near the
Chateau Leblanc entrance.

Goon: Huh?

Yuna & Rikku: Reporting for duty!

Goon: Th-Thanks?

Inside Chateau Leblanc...

Rikku: Another smashing success!

Paine: We’re not done yet. Where’s the sphere?

Yuna’s group heard a door open and they stand to the side.

Nooj: Thank you, Leblanc.

Leblanc: Anything for you, love.

Nooj: Now I finally know the location of Vegnagun. Spira is in for a rough
ride. Take care.

Leblanc: Yes, love.

Nooj left the scene.

Leblanc: Oh, how long must we be apart? These days without you are not easy on
me, love.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the living room. In there...

Ormi: The boss is a different person when that Nooj guy shows up, huh?

Logos: Suppressing her natural charm and acting like some housewife... She must
be tense.

Logos looks at Yuna.

Logos: You, go to the boss’s chambre and tend to your duties.

Yuna: What...duties?

Ormi: You know, use your talents to help her, uh, unwind.

Yuna’s group proceeds to Leblanc’s room.

Goon: Ah, that time already, is it? Don’t hold back, heh.

Inside, Leblanc blows a kiss at the Nooj statue. Then, Leblanc saw Yuna’s group.

Leblanc: I’m waiting.

Yuna begins massaging Leblanc’s back. After doing this enough to satisfy
Leblanc...

Leblanc: Hmm, that is good. When did you get so good at this?

Yuna: Uh, um... I-I dunno.

Yuna continues to massage Leblanc’s back.

Leblanc: Noojie-Woojie is such a manly man, don’t you think? He can be blunt,
but that makes the occasional smile all the more irresistible! That godly
smile... That’s the whole reason I became a sphere hunter. Oh, if only there
were some miracle sphere...something that could make him truly happy. What I
wouldn’t give!

Leblanc fell asleep.

Yuna: She fell asleep!

Yuna stops massaging Leblanc’s back.

Yuna: I’m that good?

Later, Logos and Ormi appeared.

Logos: The boss fell asleep again? One massage and she’s out like a light.

Ormi: We’s been waiting for her, too, ‘cause she had something important to
tell us.

Logos: We’ll just have to keep waiting. In the meantime, you, go make sure the
switch panel is working.

Yuna: Uh, switch?

Ormi: The back of the living room! The same one as always!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the living room. There, they found a hidden switch.

Yuna: What does it do?

Yuna pressed the switch and the picture moved up.

Rikku: Huh? That’s it? What a letdown!

Rikku pounds and then kicks the wall and the wall tilted to the side and Rikku
fell through.

Yuna: Rikku!

Rikku: Whose idea was that?

Paine: Take it up with the boss.

Yuna: Boss?

Paine: Ah? I’ve had this thing on too long. Let’s change.

Yuna’s group changes to their normal outfits. After that, they move on and
later got a transmission from Brother.

Brother: This is Brother! How’s it going?

Rikku: Be quiet! This is a covert operation. Over and out.

Brother: Rikku! How dare you speak to your leader like that!

Rikku: Ooh! Shut up, already!

Ormi: Hrm? Who’s there? Ah! The Gullwings!

Ormi appeared at the scene.

Yuna: Uh-oh!

Yuna’s group fights Ormi. After Yuna’s group wins the fight, they move on. In
the next area, Yuna’s group proceeds to Logos’s and Ormi’s room. Inside...

Rikku: Hey! This isn’t the sphere they stole, is it?

Yuna: Let’s watch it.

Yuna views the sphere.

Ormi: Let’s see. Total survivors of the final Crimson Squad selection exercise:
zero, zilch, and zipall. Job done.

Logos: You pinhead. Did you even count? Look. There are bodies missing. There
should be three more candidates and their recorder.

Ormi: Uh, your point?

Logos: Three plus one makes how many? Four still live. Fix it.

Ormi: Figures.

Man’s Voice: Did you say something?

Logos: No, sir! Pay him no mind.

The sphere stopped.

Paine: It’s a dud.

Logos: Only naughty girls would scrounge through other people’s bedrooms.

Rikku: What about you? You’re the ones who broke into our airship!

Logos: The boss’s orders are permission enough!

Yuna’s group fights Logos and Ormi. After Yuna’s group wins the fight, Logos
and Ormi retreated and suddenly, the booby traps were armed. Yuna’s group
managed to deactivate the booby trap. They proceed to the room with a sphere.
In there...

Rikku: It’s gotta be in here, right?

Paine: Let’s split up and look.

Later...

Rikku: Found it!

Paine: Found it.

Yuna: Huh?

Yuna’s group found both sphere fragments.

Paine: Now I get it. I was wondering why they’d bother stealing half a broken
sphere.

Rikku: Of course! They already had the other half!

Leblanc: Very good, loves.

Leblanc, Ormi, and Logos appeared at the scene.

Leblanc: I went through a lot of trouble gathering those pieces—all for
Noojie-Woojie. So don’t you lay a finger on it! Let’s get ‘em, boys!

Logos & Ormi: Yes, Boss!

Yuna’s group fights Leblanc, Ormi, and Logos. After Yuna’s group wins the
fight...

Rikku: Well? Want another helping of your just desserts?

Paine: No one’s gonna hear you scream from down here.

Leblanc: W-Wait a second! I’ll let you see what’s in the sphere!

Paine: Let us?

Leblanc: Please, the sphere is yours to watch.

Yuna’s group views the sphere and we watch a movie of the area with Vegnagun.
After that...

Leblanc: That is the colossus Vegnagun. We’ve finished our analysis of the
sphere. It appears to have been recorded underneath Bevelle.

Paine: I see Bevelle hasn’t lost its old fondness for secrets.

Leblanc: Exactly. Those Yevon scum have been concealing that weapon all along.
If anyone uses that thing, Spira is done for.

Rikku: But it’s a machina! All we have to do is shakey-shake our way up to it
and take it apart!

Leblanc: That’s what Noojie’s got in mind. And of course, whatever he’s
planning is what I’m planning. What about you?

Yuna: Me?

Leblanc: The summoner who defeated Sin ought to stand up and defend Spira again.

Yuna nods “yes”.

Leblanc: So then I guess we’re on the same side. We’ll be waiting for you.

Paine: Waiting where?

Leblanc: Don’t be silly, love. On your airship, of course. I’ve always wanted
to take a spin on that thing!

Rikku: Ever heard of asking?

Leblanc, Ormi, and Logos left. Rikku went after them.

Yuna: (narrating) Sin is gone. The Calm is here. I thought our peaceful days
would never end. The Eternal Calm. I really believed it would last
forever...until now. I realized how fragile it can be.

Later in the Celsius, Leblanc and her henchmen arrived at the Bridge.

Leblanc: First things first. We are going to Bevelle. Full speed ahead!

Brother: You just wait, blondie! Yuna. What next?

Leblanc: She’s off to save Spira, of course!

Yuna: Right!

Rikku: (sighs) Yunie, Yunie.

Paine: Always getting herself dragged into trouble.

Yuna: Well, we’re going to Bevelle. There should be lots of spheres there! So
why don’t we hunt for them on the side?

Leblanc: (sighs) Just admit it, love. You’re a goody-goody.

Yuna sounded offended by what Leblanc said. After that, Yuna’s group proceeds
to Bevelle. In there...

Rikku: So how we gonna do this?

Yuna: Um...

Leblanc: It’s obvious! We nab the head honcho. Then, we make him lead us to
Vegnagun, and...checkmate.

Yuna: Not bad.

Ormi: I got not problem with this. Our target is the New Yevon praetor, Baralai!

Logos: A girly man like that doesn’t stand a chance without his escort.

Paine: Careful. He’s much stronger than he looks.

Footsteps can be heard.

Paine: Company.

Guard: Who goes there?

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Guard: It’s those Youth League spies! We won’t have you defile this place like
you did in Kilika!

The guards ready their guns.

Leblanc: Well, good luck!

Leblanc, Ormi, and Logos left the scene.

Yuna: Good luck?

Yuna’s group fights and defeats the guard. After that, they move on.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Yuna: The Gullwings.

Guard: Oh, the high summoner! Please, forgive my rudeness!

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna’s group made it to the temple. They activate the platform to go down.
Before Yuna’s group takes the lift down...

Rikku: Geez, things really are a mess, huh?

Yuna: Yeah.

Yuna’s group takes the lift down. In the Cloister of Trials...

Rikku: Wait. What are fiends doing in the temple?

Paine: The temples reek of secrets. Don’t let a couple of fiends throw you.

Yuna’s group moves on. After fighting and making their way through, Yuna’s
group is in the next area.

Yuna: Let’s go.

Yuna’s group jumps down the long pit to Bevelle security core. In there, Yuna
looks at things in the security core. Suddenly, an alert sound can be heard.

Yuna: Watch the exit!

Leblanc: I don’t take orders!

Leblanc quickly thinks it over.

Leblanc: But...I’ll make an exception this time. Leave it to us, love!

Yuna’s group moves on to the next area.

IF YOU SIDED WITH NEW YEVON

The enemies appeared and blocked Yuna’s group’s way.

Rikku: Hey! Wait! It’s us, the Gullwings!

Paine: I don’t think they care.

Yuna’s group fights and defeats the enemies. After that, they move on.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

They successfully deactivate the security and platforms appeared. After that,
they move on to the next area. In there...

Rikku: Hey!

Rikku looks at the Gaol.

Rikku: Yunie! That sphere with you-know-who in it. Wasn’t it recorded here?

Leblanc: Get your head out of the clouds and move it!

Leblanc and her henchmen move on.

Yuna: (narrating) There’s a connection. Everything is connected. I can feel it.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the next area. In there, Baralai appeared.

Baralai: The Gullwings? I was wondering who was there.

Yuna said nothing.

Baralai: You don’t have to tell me. I know why you’ve come. You’re here to
destroy the weapon that threatens all Spira: Vegnagun. Am I right? If it could
be destroyed we would have done so long ago. But Vegnagun must not be touched.
Neither you nor Nooj seem to understand that.

Paine: You talked to Nooj?

Baralai: He...cannot be trusted.

Rikku: And you can be?

Baralai: Touche. Yes, I suppose Yevon has brought that distrust upon itself. At
any rate, you need not interfere. Leave Vegnagun to me.

Yuna: What are you planning to do?

Baralai readies his weapon.

Baralai: The only thing I can do: Keep those who would seek to harm Vegnagun
away. Please leave.

Paine: Yuna. Rikku. I’m going.

Baralai: Paine!

Yuna’s group fights Baralai. After Yuna’s group defeats Baralai...

Paine: Sorry, I’m going ahead.

Yuna: You have your reasons.

Rikku: Fill us in later, ‘kay?

Paine: Much later.

Rikku: Wait up!

Yuna: (narrating) With so many things woven together... ...what could be
waiting where the threads meet?

Yuna’s group moves on to the next area. There they saw Bahamut.

Rikku: No way...

Paine: What is it?

Rikku: It’s an aeon!

Bahamut makes a roar.

Yuna: An aeon...

Yuna extends both arms to the side.

Yuna: You must stop!

Paine: (shoved Yuna back a little) You wanna get killed? We have no choice!

Yuna’s group fights Bahamut. After Yuna’s group defeated Bahamut...

Yuna: (narrating) Why is this happening? I wish you were here with me.

Paine comforts Yuna.

Yuna: Thank you Paine. You were right. We had to fight it, didn’t we?

Later, Yuna’s group noticed that Vegnagun is gone.

Rikku: Nothing...

Yuna: This hole was made recently.

Rikku: You think it was Vegnagun? Unreal... How deep do you think it goes?

Leblanc and her henchmen appeared.

Leblanc: What? Where’s Vegnagun?

Yuna: Not here.

Leblanc: It must have fled in terror, knowing I was coming.

Rikku: I don’t think so.

Leblanc: I must report to Noojie-Woojie at once. Boys, record this. Don’t miss
a single detail!

Logos & Ormi: Yes, Boss!

Paine: Vegnagun. Was it really here?

Yuna: (narrating) This isn’t how it was supposed to be. The Eternal Calm... I
can feel it crumbling, falling away from beneath our feet.

Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Brother.

Brother: Yuna! We are in super doo-doo! Get back to Celsius on the double!

END OF CHAPTER 2

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. In the Bridge, an alarm can be heard.

Buddy: Trouble, and I mean big time! Fiends are pouring out of the temples!

Rikku: Which ones?

Brother: Only all of them! It’s a freakin’ state of emergency! What should we
do?

Yuna looks puzzled.

Brother: Is it Gullwing time?

Shinra: Now exactly sphere hunter work.

Buddy: True. But seeing Yuna out there could calm people down.

Paine: They’ll expect her to do the dirty work.

Rikku: Yeah, but Yunie wants to help. Don’t you?

Everyone looks down.

Rikku: Hey, I got an idea! We can be “Your Friendly Neighborhood Gullwings”!

Buddy: You mean taking out fiends and charging for it?

Brother: E mega ed! (I like it!)

Paine: What do you think?

Yuna: Well, why not? If that means we can help out people who are in trouble,
then sure!

Rikku: Right, that means sphere hunting’s on hold!

Yuna: Your Friendly neighborhood Gullwings!

Brother: It’s decided! Where to?

An alert sound can be heard again.

Buddy: Wait a sec!

Brother: Rinno ib. (Hurry up.)

Buddy: What could this mean? Meyvn Nooj of the Youth League, ...and Baralai,
praetor of New Yevon...gone. They’ve disappeared.

Brother: Fascinating. All right! Never mind. Now, Friendly Neighboring
Gullwings... Where to?

Yuna’s group proceed to Luca. In there…

Buddy: Hm. No reports of fiend activity here. Guess there’s no gil to be made
in Luca. Everyone’s worked up about some kind of sphere breaking contest.

Shinra: That’s “Sphere Break.” You should enter. The grand prize is a
dressphere.

Rikku: Great! I’ve been practicing!

Yuna: Well, let’s go take a look.

Later in the square…

Shelinda: You can’t go anywhere in Luca without hearing about Sphere Break. And
now it’s just about time for the competition to get under way.

Just as Shelinda is about to walks away…

Shelinda: But first a word from our sponsor. Lord Rin.

The camera views Rin with three ladies.

Rin: Famlusa, ajanouha. (Welcome, everyone.) I am looking forward to a fair
competition. May the best man win!

Rikku: Go time!

Rin: Kuut milg du oui! (Good luck to you!)

Yuna challenges three people in the Sphere Break contest and after winning
three, Rikku looks unhappy with Shinra.

Rikku: Oohhh… I was so close!

Yuna: Who beat you?

Shinra stands towards Rikku and Yuna giggling a little.

Shinra: It’s elementary, really, once you get the hang of it. Once I outplay
Yuna, the tournament is mine.

Rikku: Get him, Yuna!

Yuna: You’re goin’ down.

Shinra: The probability you’ll win is slim at best.

Yuna takes Shinra on in the final match of the Sphere Break contest. After Yuna
successfully won the Sphere Break contest…

Yuna: I won!

Shinra: My goggles fogged up.

Later on…

Shelinda: And the winner of the first Sphere Break tournament is… High Summoner
Yuna!

Everyone cheered and Rikku looks proud of Yuna.

Shelinda: Presenting their award is our sponsor, Lord Rin.

Rin: (to Yuna) Luhknydimydeuhc. (Congratulations.)

Yuna: Thank you.

Yuna receives Lady Luck dressphere. After that, Yuna’s group boards the
Celsius. They now proceed to Mi’ihen Highroad. In there…

Yuna: (narrating) It probably doesn’t have anything to do with the temples or
the fiends, but there have been problems here, too. Seems some machina are on
the rampage.

Rikku: Let’s mangle those machina and take the reward!

Paine: Yuna?

Yuna: Let’s do it! (narrating) Okay, sounds like it’s Mission Time!

Yuna’s group fights and takes out 13 machina units. After that…

Woman: Thank you for all your help. Here’s your reward as promised.

Yuna’s group received gils.

Rikku: So what made the machina go all haywire?

Woman: None of us can figure it out. Pretty creepy, huh? We found agency
property smashed up. Then the hover crashed. Just when we were about to look
into that, the machina went out of control.

Yuna: Well if you find anything out, be sure and give the Gullwings a call. (to
her group) Ready to head back?

Rikku: Now that wasn’t a very feel-good ending, now was it?

Paine: People who want happy endings have to write their own.

Rikku: Aw. What about me? I want a happy ending, too!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Mushroom Rock Road.
In there…

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Yuna: Gullwings here. Where are the fiends?

Yaibal: No need for concern, Lady Yuna. Everything’s under control. The fiends
got close to our headquarters, but thankfully no further. The Al Bhed from
Djose assisted us in fighting them off.

Rikku: So, Gippal was here?

Yaibal: Yes. His group also brought us these machina. You know, he said
something which still strikes me as sort of odd. He told us not to depend on
you so much, Lady Yuna.

Yuna: Me?

Yaibal: He said we need to rely on our own strength to defend Spira through the
coming age.

Lucil appeared at the scene.

Lucil: Lady Yuna, if I may interrupt. There is something I would like to ask
you.

Yuna: Sure.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Yaibal: Oh! Lady Yuna!

Youth League Member: Captain!

Yaibal: Forgive me. I…I have to return to my duties.

Yaibal left the scene.

Rikku: And he seemed so eager to talk.

Paine: When you’re in a group, you can’t put yourself first.

Yuna: There don’t seem to be many fiends… I guess we can go.

Lucil appeared at the scene.

Lucil: Lady Yuna. There is something I would like to ask you. That is, if you
don’t mind speaking with someone in the Youth League.

Yuna: Of course I don’t mind. What is it?

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Later…

Lucil: As you are probably aware, we have not heard from Meyvn Nooj, our
leader, in some time. Lady Yuna, have you no information as to his whereabouts?

Yuna: I’m sorry, but we don’t know any more than you do.

Lucil: I see…

Yuna: If we see him, we’ll tell him to return here.

Lucil: Thank you.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Next they proceed to Djose Temple. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Gippal.

Gippal: Hey, it’s Cid’s little girl!

Gippal lightly shoves Rikku’s head.

Rikku: I have a name…

Yuna: You seem close.

Gippal: We made quite the couple.

Rikku shoves Gippal.

Rikku: Fryd yna oui cyoehk? (What are you saying?)

Gippal: Rikku’s always good for a laugh. If you’re here about digging, this
isn’t the best time.

Rikku: Well, there were fiends here too, right? Want us to clean up for you?

Gippal: Fiend hunting? What, you guys give up the sphere gig?

Yuna: Temporarily. Right now we’re helping people out. Maybe…you’d like to hire
us?

Gippal pauses for a short moment.

Gippal: Nope. You already took care of Sin. We can’t go running to you every
time we get into trouble.

Gippal approaches Yuna.

Gippal: Hmph. I watch my own back.

Rikku: Hmph. Show-off!

Yuna: Well, be careful.

Gippal: You too.

Yuna: Right.

Paine: Come on.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Next they proceed to Moonflow. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Tobli.

Tobli: This won’t do, won’t do at all! We’ve finally put it on! The show, of
course. But there’s no passion! No climax! No, no, no, no, no! Oh, shoopuf!

Yuna’s group talks to Tobli again.

Tobli: I can’t run a show without climactic passion! I must have miscalculated!
This wasn’t supposed to happen at all!

Rikku: Don’t worry, Tobli. I’m sure your next show will make up for it.

Tobli: Next show? How can there be a next show when the first show made the
next show a no-show? Well one thing’s surely for sure. I need to attract
celebrities to attract an audience!

Yuna: Huh. Got any celebrities in mind?

Tobli: Well let’s see, let’s see. The most celebrated celebrity… Eureka!

Paine: Yuna, run.

Yuna: What’s wrong?

Paine: Don’t ask, just run. Run now. Run fast.

Yuna: Um, okay.

Just when Yuna’s group are about to run away…

Tobli:  Wait, wait, wait! Just a moment!

Tobli tripped and fell down.

Paine: Keep running.

Rikku: Hey! What’s gotten into you?

Paine: Do you really need to ask? You know what he’s planning, right?

Rikku: This is our big chance!

Yuna: It might be fun.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Next they proceed to Guadosalam. Yuna’s group
enters Chateau Leblanc. Inside the living room…

Ormi: Leblanc, there’s nothing to worry about.

Logos: Not even close.

Ormi: Let’s see you do it, then.

Logos: Leblanc, there’s nothing to worry about.

Ormi: Bwahahaha! Look who’s talking!

Yuna: What are you doing?

Logos: The boss has been rather…depressed since Nooj went missing.

Ormi: We wants to comfort her, see?

Rikku: Oh, was that supposed to be Nooj?

Logos: That bad, was it?

Yuna & Rikku: Yup.

Logos and Ormi look down and sighing.

Paine: Even if you did sound like Nooj, do you think it would actually help?

Ormi & Logos: It would!

Paine: Whatever you say.

Yuna’s group proceed to Leblanc’s room. Before they can go in…

Goon: Maybe the threat of a little competition would help bring the boss’s
fight back?

Yuna’s group enters Leblanc’s room and talks to her.

Leblanc: (depressed) Leave me alone.

Rikku: Don’t you want to hunt some spheres? The Gullwings are gonna get all the
spheres in Spira, you know.

Leblanc: (depressed) Fine by me. There’s no point in chasing after spheres if
my Noojie-Woojie isn’t there to smile. What difference does it make?

Paine: You’re a mess.

Leblanc: (depressed) Say whatever you want.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the living room. In there…

Ormi: What if we showed her a sphere of Nooj?

Paine: Why ask us? Go for it.

Logos: Of course! That sphere! We took one in Bevelle. Care to watch it?

Yuna: What’s on it?

Logos: We haven’t looked yet. Meet us in our room. We’ll have a little
screening!

Yuna’s group proceed to Logos’ room. In there…

Logos: Let’s see…this should be it.

Logos views the sphere. They look at the previous times Yuna’s group and
Leblanc’s group were at in Bevelle.

Yuna: What’s this?

Logos: Ormi shot this. Not me.

Paine: So I see.

Logos: This must be a dud.

Rikku: Who you calling a dud!

In the next recording…

Yuna: There’s someone there!

Rikku: Really? Where, where?

Logos: I’ll zoom in.

The recording zooms into Nooj.

Rikku: It’s Nooj!

The recording ended.

Rikku: What was he doing there?

Paine: I don’t like it.

Yuna: What?

Paine: All these secrets. It’s just one thing after another.

Logos: If I may. You’re free to do as you please, but I’d prefer you not
mention this to the boss.

Rikku: Why not?

Logos: Whatever this Vegnagun thing is, it’s clearly dangerous. Nothing the
likes of we sphere hunters have any business fooling around with. But if the
boss knew Nooj were involved, well, there’d be no stopping her. If anything
were to happen to her…

Rikku: You guys got it rough, don’t you?

Logos: If only she noticed.

Yuna’s group received Logos’ and Ormi’s Spheres. Yuna searches and saw another
sphere.

Yuna: Is this one from Bevelle, too?

Rikku: Ooh, been taking naughty pictures again?

Logos: I didn’t shoot this one. I found it.

Yuna views the sphere. In the recording…

Logos: The image is badly deteriorated. Must be old.

Man: Bah! The only reason the war’s dragging on is because Zanarkand refuses to
surrender.

????: You’re wrong! If you’d stop attacking, there wouldn’t be a war!

Man: We’re not falling for that.

????: Someday…your precious weapons will end up destroying you.

Maechen: He’s probably referring to the Machina War of a thousand years past.

Maechen came in.

Logos: When did you sneak in, old man?

Yuna’s group received Gaol Sphere.

Maechen: You can’t expect me to remember everything that happens! I must admit,
the likeness is positively uncanny.

Yuna: It can’t really be him…can it?

Maechen: I’m afraid not. After all, that sphere was recorded a thousand years
ago.

Yuna: Right… Of course.

Yuna’s group talks to Maechen.

Maechen: Would you like to hear more?

Yuna: Please go on.

Maechen: Lady Yuna, a rumor has been going around of late. Perhaps you’ve heard
it. They say that High Summoner Yuna was accompanied by a guardian from, of all
places, Zanarkand! Oh, yes, that young man raised quite a few eyebrows at the
blitzball tournament in Luca. I spoke to him myself on a number of occasions. I
could sense that he belonged to an otherworld. That he should look so much like
the man in that sphere cannot be mere coincidence, I should think.

Yuna: There’s a connection.

Maechen: There is. I would very much like the chance to ask him, and clear this
matter up once and for all.

Yuna: But…he’s gone. Just like the fayth said. “Our dream will vanish.”

Maechen: A dream of the fayth? Is that right…

There was a short pause.

Maechen: Oh, my!

Rikku: What is it?

Maechen: I had something on the tip of my tongue. But then it slipped away…
Something very important… Frustrating. Well, I suppose I’ll just have to think
on it a little more. Until next time, Lady Yuna. We are all connected. There
may yet be a way to reunite with those who have gone.

Yuna: (stands up) What?

Paine: Watch what you say.

Maechen: Forgive me. Consider it the ramblings of an old man.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Thunder Plains. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Cid.

Rikku: Are you still bummed out about that, Pops?

Cid: Who asked you!

Paine: Let’s go.

Before Yuna’s group could leave…

Cid: Yuna. I’m sorry. Can you forgive me?

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Macalania Woods. In there,
they proceed directly to the Al Bhed Travel Agency. In there…

Rikku: The Agency!

Yuna: Fiends? Here?

Paine: Must be from Macalania Temple. The fact that it’s underwater doesn’t
seem to matter.

Rikku: We can worry about why later! Yunie!

Yuna: We have to help them!

Paine: And our fee?

Rikku: I’ll pay you myself. How’s that?

Yuna’s group fights the fiends. After defeating them all…

Paine: Think that’s the last of them?

Rikku: How’re the people inside?

Yuna: Let’s go look.

Yuna’s group goes inside the Travel Agency. Inside, they saw an Al Bhed falling
to the floor badly wounded.

Al Bhed: (dying) Fryd fyc ed? Dryd rika cryba, taab fedreh dra myga. E
fiend…machina? (What is it? That huge shape, deep within the lake. A
fiend…machina?)

Rikku: Don’t talk. Save your strength.

Al Bhed: Dyga drec. E vuiht ed rayn dra myga. (Take this. I found it near the
lake.)

Yuna’s group received the Berserker dressphere. The Al Bhed stopped breathing
and died. O’aka came in.

O’aka: Ah! What’s happened to me shop? (to the dead Al Bhed) Come on, lad, I’ve
come to give back the money I owe ye! Ye can’t die before I pay ye back! Think
of me reputation! I’m beggin’ ye! (shouted out in an outburst) Now look what
ye’ve done! Disgrace! Disgrace on the O’aka name!

Yuna’s group goes outside. Before they could leave, O’aka came out.

Paine: I think you’ll get more fiends than customers.

O’aka: Then I’ll just have to start sellin’ to fiends, won’t I? I owe it to
those lads who died defending me shop, and I’ll not be letting ‘em down. Ye
will come and stop in once in a while, won’t ye?

O’aka: Mark me words, I’ll stand by this shop, whatever may come.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Bikanel Desert. In there...

Nhadala: Boy, am I glad to see you! I need your help with something.

Yuna: Fiends?

Nhadala: Not fiends, Cacti. Marnela of the Cactuar Nation has asked to see us.
We’ve been too busy here to spare anybody. If it’s not a problem, I’d like you
to represent us.

Yuna: What’s the Cactuar Nation?

Nhadala: Don’t worry if you haven’t heard of it before. We’ve only recently
established diplomatic ties. Benzo!

Benzo appeared at the scene.

Nhadala: This is our interpreter, Benzo.

There was a brief pause.

Benzo: Very nice to meet you.

Yuna: Hi.

Nhadala: All right, you can take it from here.

Nhadala left the scene.

Paine: When will you ever learn to say no?

Yuna’s group talks to the pilot and take the hover to Cactuar Nation. In there…

Rikku: It’s cactus central out here! So where’s this Marnela, anyway?

Benzo: Right here.

Rikku: Here where?

Yuna: Sure this is the place?

Marnela saw an Al Bhed and started talking.

Rikku: It talked? Wh-What’s going on?

Benzo: This is Marnela.

Marnela starts moving back and forth.

Benzo: I’ll translate. Marnela’s greeting us. “Hello, Benzo.” She says, “Hello
to you, too, sphere hunters.” “I am Marnela of the Cactuar Nation.” “It does
not surprise me that you are startled.” (By the way, she’s smiling.) “We, the
cacti of this Nation, were once cactuars.” “As the cacti that sprout in the
desert grow, they become cactuars...” “When the cactuars mature, they once
again become cacti...” “...their roots digging deep into the earth.” “Thus have
we watched over the sands of Bikanel Desert since the dawn of time.” “So tell
me, do you believe what I have told you?”

Yuna: That makes perfect sense!

Benzo: She says, “Thank you.”

Yuna’s group talks to Marnela.

Benzo: I think Marnela’s about to tell us why she called us here. “A strange
wind has been blowing through the desert.” “You, too, may have felt the sands
trembling beneath your feet.” “A fearsome fiend that rests deep beneath the
earth has begun to stir.” “In the depths it gathers its strength, and it will
not be long before it makes its move.” “And when that time comes, it will bring
its wrath to bear upon the Cactuar Nation first.” “The reason it lusts for
vengeance against us? It is we who locked it away beneath the dunes so very
long ago.” “To be more precise, it was not us, but our ancestors who ruled this
land in ages past.” “Its need for retribution will surely lead it here.” “We
must summon the Great Haboob and prepare ourselves for the coming menace.”
“Only the cactuars known as the Ten Gatekeepers can weave this magical
barrier.” “But they are out training in every corner of Spira. I need your help
to seek them out and bring them back.” “The Cactuar Mothers know where they
have gone.” “Lose no time in finding the Ten Gatekeepers and returning them to
us.” That’s all she has to say.

Yuna’s group saves Ten Gatekeeper search for later. Yuna’s group boards the
Celsius. They now proceed to Calm Lands. Near the gorge…

Man 1: Fiends, from deep in the cave!

Man 2: There are still some people trapped inside! There’s nothing we can do to
help them…

Yuna: (narrating) To be honest, I’d had enough. I wanted to blame them for
turning a place like this into a tourist attraction.

Old Woman: Please, won’t you help us rescue the people left behind?

Yuna: All right, we’ll help.

Old Woman: You are most kind.

Buddy: Your Friendly Neighborhood Gullwings open for business!

Yuna’s group proceeds inside the cave. After Yuna’s group rescued all the
people, they go to the teleport and are near the Chamber of the Fayth. In
there, Yojimbo appeared at the scene.

Yuna: Please, tell me! Why is this happening?

Yuna’s group fights Yojimbo. After Yuna’s group defeats Yojimbo…

Rikku: Hello!

Paine: Careful. Someone might answer.

Later, Yuna’s group goes outside and the people looked relieved that they were
saved.

Man: We can’t thank you enough for your help. I promise we won’t be doing
business here anymore.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Mt. Gagazet. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Kimahri.

Kimahri: Yuna must leave. Ronso youth use force. Seek vengeance for fallen
Ronso. Garik lead angry Ronso youth. Decide to take revenge on Guado. Garik go
to battle. Now Garik climb peak, tell mountain battle plan.

Rikku: And you’re just gonna wait here?

Kimahri: Garik hear voice of mountain. Garik change mind. Kimahri hope so.

Paine: And if he doesn’t?

Kimahri: Kimahri stop Ronso youth.

Yuna: That’s crazy.

Kimahri: Elder Kimahri have no choice.

Rikku: Yunie, this isn’t good.

Paine: There’s still time. Should we follow them?

Yuna: We’re going up. Maybe we can reason with him.

Kimahri: If Yuna go, Kimahri think Garik listen. Maybe. If not, Kimahri deal
with Garik.

Yuna’s group moves on. After crossing the long path, Yuna’s group saw Garik.

Garik: Ronso hold anger no longer. Ronso youth fearless. Go to battle with
Guado!

Yuna: And if I ask you not to go?

Garik: Mountain tell Ronso to go!

Yuna: (approaches Garik) What if you can’t go?

Yuna pulls out her gun and aims at Garik.

Garik: Summoner not hold Ronso anger with puny arms.

Yuna: But if I do, you will stop this talk of vengeance.

Garik: Very well, but Garik never fall!

Rikku: Somebody’s a few spheres short of a Garment Grid.

Paine: Typical Ronso.

Rikku: Good point… But I was talking about Yunie.

Yuna’s group are about to start a fight with Garik.

Garik: High Summoner Yuna! Know true Ronso anger!

Yuna’s group fights Garik and 2 Ronso Youths. After Yuna’s group wins the fight…

Yuna: Enough vengeance, Garik.

Garik: Ronso keep word. Yuna defeat Garik in battle. Garik honor Yuna’s wish.
Not go to battle.

The 2 Ronso Youth left the scene.

Yuna: Thank you.

Garik: Garik not need thanks. Garik underestimate Yuna. Garik now understand he
is weak in battle. Garik wait. Destroy Guado after he become better warrior.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Zanarkand Ruins. In
there, they proceed to the dome and talk to Isaaru.

Isaaru: I’ve heard that fiends have been appearing at the temples. Do you know
anything?

Yuna: They’re coming from the Chambers of the Fayth.

Isaaru: It pains me to hear that.

Paine: And Zanarkand?

Isaaru: There are fiends, as always. No more, no fewer. But the ruin tours are
another matter. The only things thriving here are the monkeys.

The monkeys appeared at the scene.

Isaaru: To make matters worse, Cid ran off a while ago and hasn’t come back. I
guess that makes me Zanarkand’s lone defender. Well, time to do some defending.
Until next time.

Isaaru left the scene. Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds
to Besaid Island. In the village, Yuna’s group talks to Lulu.

Yuna: The fiends?

Lulu: They’re coming from inside the temple. But it’s all right. Wakka and the
others fought them off. Luckily no one was hurt.

Buddy: Guess Your Friendly Neighborhood Gullwings won’t be needed.

Lulu: Any fiends they missed may still be wandering around. Wakka and the rest
split up to track them down. Give them a hand.

Buddy: The Gullwings are on the job. We’ll even give you our special bargain
price.

Lulu: That’s nice.

Yuna: Sorry, Lulu!

Lulu: That’s okay, it’s all right. Now go. Take a look around. People in the
village will feel better knowing you’re here, Yuna.

Yuna nods “yes”. After that, Yuna’s group talks to Shinra.

Yuna: Whatcha up to?

Shinra: Installing a CommSphere. You never know when you might need a
CommSphere.

Yuna: A new invention of yours?

Brother speaks from the CommSphere.

Brother: Shinra, did you fall and get a boo-boo?

Shinra: Here’s the perfect guinea pig.

Yuna approaches the CommSphere.

Brother: Oh! I can see Yuna!

Shinra: The CommSphere transmits an image back to the airship.

Yuna: Oh, neat.

Yuna waves at the CommSphere.

Brother: More, more!

Shinra: How asinine.

Later, Rikku appeared at the scene.

Rikku: Yunie! Yunie! Something’s up!

Yuna and Rikku look at Wakka and Beclem.

Beclem: What’s there to decide, Wakka? We can finish off the fiends right here
and now.

Wakka: Burning down the temple is going too far!

Beclem: You have another suggestion?

Wakka is frustrated.

Beclem: We have to do something. What if the fiends keep coming? Or maybe you
don’t mind putting your family in danger?

Wakka: Hey! All we gotta do is stop the fiends, ya?

Wakka ran into the temple. Yuna’s group proceeds into to temple. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Beclem.

Beclem: Wakka’s inside, fighting fiends. It would be so simple to burn this
place down and take the fiends with it. Praying to them never did anyone any
good. You’re the one who defeated Sin. You should know.

Yuna’s group walks up the stairs.

Beclem: Going to help him? I won’t wait much longer.

Yuna: You want to see it burn that badly?

Beclem: It’s for the safety of the village.

Yuna’s group proceeds forward into the Cloister of Trials. In there, they saw
Wakka sitting near a wall.

Yuna: Wakka!

Rikku: You okay?

Wakka: Just a few scratches, eh? Nothin’ to worry about.

Paine: There are too many. Let’s get out while we can. The man was right: We
have to use fire.

Wakka: Whatever’s controlling the fiends must be down there. Take that bad boy
out.

Yuna: And we won’t need fire.

Paine: Fair enough.

Yuna: Wakka, stay here.

Wakka: Why?

Rikku: Wouldn’t want you to overdo it, Daddy.

Wakka: Hey, wait up!

Yuna’s group takes the elevator down and proceeds to the area with the aeon.
Wakka then appears from behind and saw an aeon.

Wakka: An aeon?

Yuna: No…something’s not right…

Rikku: Wakka, stay back! It’s not safe!

Yuna’s group fights Valefor. After Yuna’s group defeats Valefor…

Yuna: That was my very first aeon.

Paine: Hm.

Yuna: I grew up here in Besaid. This is my home. I became a summoner here.
(narrating) This is where I first met you. (talking) I have to protect this
place.

Wakka: Yuna…

Later, Yuna’s group and Wakka exit the Cloister of Trials.

Paine: The job’s done.

Beclem: I see. Glad to see you’re not hurt. Or...are you? Aren’t you going to
be a father soon? What if something had happened to you? What then?

Beclem left the scene.

Rikku: Quiet, meanie!

Wakka: It’s okay. What can I say. He’s got a point.

Yuna: Wakka…

Wakka: If we die trying to save one memory, we risk losing them all.

Rikku: But, what if it’s a really important memory?

Wakka: “Memories are nice, but that’s all they are.” It’s an Al Bhed saying, ya?

Rikku: Well, yeah, but…

Later, Yuna’s group and Wakka go outside. Yuna’s group gets a transmission from
Brother.

Brother: Yuna, you all right?

Yuna: Yeah, just fine.

Brother: I’ll be waiting!

Paine: Talk about a one-track mind.

Paine and Rikku left the scene.

Wakka: Memories and just…memories, ya? Fiends ever come out of the temple
again, I may really have to burn it.

Yuna: I guess so. But call me before you do. We’ll save fire for our last
resort.

Wakka: You got it.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Then they proceed to Kilika Island. In there,
they talk to Dona in her hut.

Dona: My, my, my, my… What brings you here?

Yuna: We heard fiends were coming from the temple.

Dona: And you just had to come running.

Yuna: Well, uh, I wouldn’t say that.

Dona: I’m not even so sure there are any fiends.

Paine: You haven’t checked?

Dona: I’m in the Youth League. Do you think they’d let me in the temple.

Rikku: So now what? We giving up?

Yuna: Let’s take a look first.

Dona: You’ll never get near the temple. The Youth League’s blockaded the forest
entrance. As they should. We can’t have those temple vermin crawling into town
now, can we? Besides, it spares me from having to see that sulky face.

Rikku: Sulky face… Barthello?

Dona: Of course. He’s with New Yevon, so naturally he’s in the temple. But then
it’s really none of my business.

Yuna: Then we’ll make it ours. Besides, I’m worried about the fiends.

Dona: If you want to go that badly, I won’t stop you. But they’re turning
people away at the gate.

Dona thinks of a plan.

Dona: I’ve got it. I’ll distract one of the guards. That’s your chance to run
through.

Dona left the scene. Later…

Yuna: I knew she was worried about him.

Later, Yuna’s group saw the gate and Dona distracting a guard.

Rikku: I think it’s working!

Paine: That leaves one. Let’s wait for our chance, and take it.

Yuna’s group successfully passed the gate without being detected. After that…

Guard: You, what are you doing!

Yuna gasp.

Paine: Run!

Dona: There’s a hidden path through the woods. Walk the treetops!

In the woods, Yuna’s group saw that all the paths have been blockaded. After
that, Yuna’s group saw the treetops!

Paine: Dona said there was a hidden path.

Yuna: “Walk the treetops”…

Yuna’s group walks the treetops. After that, they successfully made it to the
temple. Yuna’s group then enters the Cloister of Trials. In there they saw
Barthello on the floor. Yuna’s group fights and defeats Daeva. After that, they
try to wake Barthello up.

Rikku: Barthello?

Barthello: I’ll be okay.

Yuna: The fiends?

Barthello: We’re holding them off...somehow. They’re coming from inside! One
after another…

Later…

Barthello: If the fiends reach the town, they’ll reach...Dona!

Yuna: They won’t.

Barthello: Thanks.

Rikku: Dona wants to see you. Well, she didn’t come right out and say it, but
you can kinda tell.

Barthello: I want to see her, too. Even if we believe different things, I’ll
always feel the same about her. The time of the summoners may have passed, but
I will always be Dona’s guardian. I live only to protect her!

Paine: And you can say that with a straight face?

Barthello: Dona!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the area with the aeon.

Yuna: Again...

Paine: An aeon?

Yuna: Yeah.

Rikku: Yunie...

Yuna: I know. I’m ready.

Yuna’s group fights Ifrit. After Yuna’s group defeats Ifrit, they examine the
hole.

Paine: Another hole. Hmm...

Yuna’s group exits the temple and the blue flames in the orbs turned back to
normal. After that, Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. In the Bridge...

Rikku: Mmm... I don’t get it!

Shinra: Fortunately, I know everything.

Rikku: So why were fiends coming out of the temples?

Shinra: The fiends didn’t come from the temples. They came from the Chambers of
the Fayth.

Rikku: Right, exactly! But why?

Shinra pauses a moment.

Shinra: I’m just a kid.

Paine: The holes in the Chambers of the Fayth—were they there before?

Yuna: No.

Rikku: So the holes must be new, right?

Paine: There was one in Bevelle, too. A great hole...

Rikku: But that one was made by Vegnagun, wasn’t it?

Yuna: That’s true, but they’re connected somehow.

Brother: The holes...are connected?

Yuna: Yes, but it’s more than just that. Somehow I think there are deeper
connections.

Brother: Ohhh... That is deep, Yuna.

An alert sound can be heard.

Buddy: Distress call from Djose Temple!

Brother: Djose? Is it Gippal?

Buddy: Hmm. Looks like they got into some trouble trying to clear out the
fiends.

Brother: Right! Here’s the order! Gullwings! Forget it! Let Gippal save himself!

Rikku: What?

Brother: Gippal kadc ymm dra yldeuh. (Gippal gets all the action.)

Rikku: Kessa y pnayg! (Gimme a break!)

Buddy: Well, Yuna?

Yuna: Well, we’ll just have to charge him a little extra, then. Gullwings,
let’s go!

Rikku: Aw, can’t we give him a discount?

Yuna’s group first pays a visit to Bevelle. In there, the camera shows Gippal
on the roof. Then he left the scene. Yuna’s group proceeds inside the temple.
Inside, they saw Gippal and he left the scene again.

Rikku: Was that...Gippal? What’s he doing here?

Yuna’s group proceeds to the area where Vegnagun used to be. In there, Yuna’s
group saw Gippal arriving in the scene with Nooj and Baralai and Yuna’s group
takes their hiding place.

Gippal: Hey.

Baralai: You’re late.

Nooj: If you were on time, then I’d really start to worry.

The screen switches to Yuna’s group who are watching the scene.

Yuna: So much for being missing.

The camera shows Nooj, Gippal and Baralai.

Gippal: Sure you should be here? The Youth League and New Yevon are crumbling
without you guys to hold ‘em together.

Nooj: You expect too much.

Gippal: Learn from us! So why we here?

Baralai: There’s something I needed to be sure of. Vegnagun...is gone.

The camera shows the whole area where Vegnagun used to be.

Nooj: Listen to you: “Vegnagun is gone.” Are you trying to tell us that since
that thing left on its own, Yevon’s not to blame?

Baralai: It’s the truth. The thing’s more sensitive than its size would lead
one to believe. It detects hostility, and in an instant, springs to life!
Should one even think of harming it, it awakens like a frightened child.

Nooj: Hah. You did your homework.

Baralai: I’ve had two years.

Gippal: Wait, so you’re saying that Vegnagun woke up because someone was trying
to destroy it? Who?

Baralai: Who indeed. I’m a little confused. You came to claim it for yourself,
didn’t you? But Vegnagun awoke. Why? Because deep down you hated it. Did you
come here to use it or destroy it? Well?

Nooj: Both. You probably think that’s impossible. You’ve always been too naive
to see. I wouldn’t expect you to understand.

Baralai: Then, I hope you don’t expect me to trust you, either. I believed in
you once— When we were training for the Crimson Squad. I thought I’d never find
a better friend. But you betrayed that… …two years ago.

Baralai pulls out his gun and aims at Nooj.

Gippal: Baralai!

Baralai: (angry) Why did you shoot? Why did you shoot Gippal and me? We were
friends, and you shot us in the back!

Nooj didn’t respond.

Baralai: Answer me!

Gippal: Just calm down! Nooj! Apologize already! That’s enough! Don’t push me…

Gippal pulls out his gun and aims at Baralai.

Gippal: If this is what it takes.

Suddenly, Nooj’s body was glowing and he dropped his cane.

Nooj: This has turned out perfectly, wouldn’t you agree? Yes, I shot you.

Nooj pulls out his gun and aims at Gippal.

Nooj: (speaking with an eerie voice) You were easy targets. You…and Paine.

Gippal: You shot Paine, too?

Baralai: Why?

Nooj laughs with evil intentions.

Baralai: Answer me!

Nooj: (eerie voice) I made him do it. He was too weak to resist me.

Gippal: Nooj?

Nooj: (eerie voice) I don’t expect you to present any more of a challenge. Not
now.

The glowing thing came out of Nooj’s body and enters Baralai’s body. Nooj
kneels to the floor.

Baralai: (eerie voice) See, I found that the mind that hates and despairs is
the easiest to break. Two years ago, it was the same with you. Nooj. Seeking
your own death. Now you can have it.

Baralai is about to shoot Nooj.

Gippal: Wait!

Paine: Stop!

Nooj: Paine, get out of here!

The barrier activated near Nooj, Baralai and Gippal and Marlboro appeared
behind Yuna’s group. Yuna’s group fights and defeats Marlboro. After that...

Rikku: Where’d they go?

Paine: I saw Baralai escape. Nooj and Gippal probably chased after him.

Yuna: So you knew all three of them.

Paine: Long ago.

Rikku: Yeah but Nooj, he…

Paine: Yes, he shot us. It was an accident. At least that’s how I see it.

Rikku: Why didn’t you tell us?

Paine: You never asked.

Rikku: I’m asking now.

There was a short pause.

Rikku: You don’t wanna tell us.

Paine: Bingo.

Rikku is a little frustrated.

Paine: You wanna know.

Yuna: Yeah, but… Forcing you to tell isn’t any better. We’ll wait until you’re
ready.

Paine: No pressure, huh?

Yuna’s group proceeds to Djose Temple. In there, the Al Bheds are outside. One
of them has a gun aiming at the entrance.

Al Bhed: Frana ec Gippal frah fa haat res? (Where is Gippal when we need him?)

Rikku: (to Yuna and Paine) He says Gippal’s not back yet.

Yuna: Wonder if he’s still with Nooj and Baralai.

Paine: Probably.

Al Bhed: Fa dneat vekrdehk dra veahtc uh uin ufh, pid fa uhmo syta drehkc
funca. Dra veahtc vuiht y fyo du sanka fedr uin machina. (We tried fighting the
fiends on our own, but we only made things worse. The fiends found a way to
merge with our machina.)

Rikku: (to Yuna and Paine) Translation: Not good!

Yuna: Then that’s our cue.

Yuna’s group proceeds into the temple. In there, they made it to the chamber
with the aeon.

Rikku: An aeon?

Paine: Merged with Al Bhed machina. Isn’t that what they said?

Yuna: How can this be…

Yuna’s group fights Ixion. After Yuna’s group defeats Ixion, they proceed to
the chamber with a large hole.

Rikku: Another hole. I wonder what’s down there.

Paine: Go find out.

Rikku: Uh-uh! No way!

Yuna: (narrating) The hole we found was so deep… It was as though all the
secrets in the world might be hidden in its depths… But something told me to
stay away. These secrets are not for me to know.

Suddenly, Ixion appeared and is ready to self-destruct.

Paine: Get back!

Rikku: Huh?

Yuna: What?

Ixion self-destructed and the blast pushes Yuna’s group back. However, Yuna
falls into the deep hole.

Paine: Yuna!

Rikku: Yunie!

Later, Yuna falls upside down in a bright screen.

Yuna: It’s so bright.

????: Can you hear me?

Yuna: Yes.

Yuna turns right side up.

????: Ah, you can hear me.

Yuna: I can’t see you. Where are you?

????: Right here!

We watch a movie of Yuna in her songstress outfit getting up in the Farplane.
Then bright lights emanate and go away from Yuna.

Yuna: What’s happening?

Then, a man who resembles “him” appeared.

????: I finally found you.

Yuna: Is that really you?

Shuyin: It is me, Shuyin. I’ve waited so long, Lenne.

Yuna turns her back on Shuyin.

Yuna: But I’m not Lenne.

Shuyin: Lenne. We disappeared together, but when I awoke, I was alone. I looked
for you for so long. While I wandered, I realized something: Spira hasn’t
really changed at all. Everyone’s still fighting over nothing. Still dying like
they used to. A thousand years have passed, and they can’t leave the hatred
behind. I’m through waiting. I’ll fix it. This world continues to fail us, and
what’s worse, I failed to protect you. (clenches his fist) Vegnagun will make
that all go away. And we’ll fade together again, together. Help me do it, Lenne.

Yuna: (narrating) Don’t touch me.

Yuna gasp as Shuyin turned her around and started hugging her. Then, lights
emanate from Yuna’s body with some of them coming out.

Yuna: (narrating) Whose feelings are these? Lenne’s? Mine?

Later...

Nooj: (to Yuna) Open your eyes!

Shuyin let’s go of Yuna and suddenly, Shuyin reverts to Baralai and Yuna
reverts to her normal outfit. Baralai approaches a little closer to the
Farplane’s ledge.

Baralai: The end is not far now.

Baralai made a portal open and went in it.

Nooj: (to Yuna) Give this to Paine. It was all I was able to find.

Nooj gave Yuna a sphere.

Gippal: Give her this one, too.

Gippal gave Yuna a sphere.

Yuna: Huh?

Nooj: Our wills.

Gippal: He’s kidding. Just make sure Paine gets ‘em, all right?

Yuna: How do you know her?

Gippal: The four of us go way back.

Yuna: Don’t go!

Gippal: It’s under control!

Nooj: Take care of things topside.

Later, Yuna appeared in a void.

Yuna: (narrating) I didn’t know what had happened. Everywhere I looked, I found
only questions. But more than anything… (talking) I’m just…angry. One thing
after another, and I’m already confused to begin with… Hey! Where am I?

After a moment of emptiness, Yuna tries to scream, but nothing happened. Yuna
kneels down.

Yuna: I’m all alone...

Yuna suddenly heard a whistle.

Yuna: Where are you?

Yuna suddenly heard a third whistle.

Yuna: Wait!

Yuna follows a man in light and walks up the invisible stairs. Yuna later
appeared in Vegnagun’s area in Bevelle.

Buddy: Come in, Yuna. Yuna!

Yuna: Yuna, reporting in.

All the Gullwings: Yuna!

END OF CHAPTER 3

Later in the Celsius, Yuna arrived in the Bridge.

Brother: Fryd y nameav! E druikrd fa ryt mucd oui. (What a relief! I thought we
had lost you.)

Buddy: He’s been blubbering about how he couldn’t go on living if something
were to happen to you.

Rikku: We hadn’t heard anything in so long! We tried tossing a CommSphere into
the hole, but it didn’t help one bit.

Brother whines a little.

Shinra: Hey, it’s still in beta.

Paine: So, what happened?

Yuna: Well…

Yuna told everyone all about what happened with her during the scene at the
Farplane.

Buddy: Lenne, huh?

Shinra: Yeah, the girl from the Songstress dressphere.

Yuna: That’s Lenne?

Shinra: Sure. She wore that dress one thousand years ago.

Rikku: Why didn’t you tell us?

Shinra: No one asked. Besides, all I knew was her name. What’s to tell?

Yuna: (narrating) What Shinra said surprised me, but only a little. So there
really was a connection.

Rikku: Okay, okay. So, the reason Shuyin keeps calling Yuna “Lenne” is--

Paine: Because of that dressphere?

Shinra: I can’t really say for sure.

Brother: Forget Lenne! Shuyin’s the one who’s wanting to vaporize Spira!

Buddy: Yeah, but what can we do? Nooj and Gippal are already planning
something. Let them deal with it for now.

Yuna heads to the elevator. Before she can do so...

Rikku: Yunie, Yunie!

Yuna: Yeah?

Rikku: You met Shuyin, right? Was he anything like you-know-who?

Yuna: Not really. Just his face.

Yuna takes the elevator to the deck. Out there, Yuna shows Paine the spheres
received from Nooj and Gippal.

Yuna: They gave me these.

Yuna gave the two spheres to Paine.

Paine: They say anything?

Yuna: No.

Paine: I see.

Before Yuna could walk away…

Paine: They’re old friends. The three of them were candidates for the Crimson
Squad. And I was the recorder assigned to their team. Yevon created the Squad
and started training members two years ago. It was supposed to be an elite
fighting force. The best were to be assigned leadership of Crusader chapters
across Spira...

Yuna: But?

Paine: The Squad was destroyed before that happened. Most of the candidates
died. An accident. The four of us were separated then. Things happened. I don’t
get it. I was there. I saw everything. But still. I don’t know why it happened
that way. Even now. So I went to look…for some answers.

Yuna: You became a sphere hunter.

Paine: I always did want to fly on this thing anyway.

Rikku: Whatcha talking about?

Rikku appeared at the scene.

Rikku: Or is it another one of those secrets? That’s all right. I didn’t wanna
know anyway.

Paine: (pointing at Rikku’s face) Too bad. And I was just about to tell you.

Rikku: Really?

Paine: Too late now.

Rikku: Oui pimmo! (You bully!)

Paine: We used to laugh like this once. The four of us. I’ve been chasing my
past for so long… Sometimes getting it back is all I can think about. Other
times, I just want to forget. (to Yuna) What about you? Shuyin isn’t who you
thought, is he?

Yuna: No.

Paine: Maybe we should both let go of our past and focus more on what’s to come.

Rikku: (to Paine) You’re not leaving the Gullwings?

Paine: Always a possibility.

Paine and Rikku left the scene.

Yuna: (narrating) So many things seem intertwined. But nothing leads to you.
Why be a sphere hunter if what I’m hunting for can never be found?

Yuna takes the elevator to the Bridge. In the Bridge…

Rikku: You’re not leaving us, are you?

Paine: I may not look it, but I am having a good time.

Rikku: Right! Right?

Buddy: What about Yuna? Think she’ll quit?

Brother: Uv luinca hud! (Of course not!)

Paine: Yht fru ycgat oui, yenrayt? (And who asked you, airhead?)

Yuna arrived at the Bridge.

Brother: Yuna!

Shinra: I hate to interrupt, but Spira’s falling apart with its leaders
missing. Check the CommSpheres and see.

Yuna talks to Shinra.

Shinra: Wanna check the CommSpheres?

Yuna checks Besaid Island first.

Wakka: Hey, Yuna. How you been, huh?

Yuna: Well, not too bad. How are things in Besaid, Wakka?

Wakka: It’s okay. It’s been pretty quiet, ya? No more fiends in the temple.

Yuna: Really?

Wakka: That’s what Beclem says, and he patrols the place every day.

Yuna: He’s a dedicated man.

Wakka: Yeah, but he’s gonna be leaving the island pretty soon. Youth League’s
having some trouble or something, so they called him back to headquarters. On
top of that, word around here is the New Yevon praetor’s gone missing. Not sure
what it all means, but things don’t look good, ya?

Yuna: Yeah, it’s a bit crazy all over.

Wakka: Listen. I dunno about the rest of Spira, but Besaid’s in good shape. I
got this place covered. It’s that, or Lu’ll let me have it. You know what I’m
sayin’?

Yuna: Thanks, Wakka.

Yuna then checks Kilika Island next. While watching, Dona is taking the
CommSphere and she placed it on the bed.

Dona: Well, that’s Kilika Port for you. From the moment Nooj disappeared,
everyone’s been running around in circles. Just look at them. No one knows what
to do without someone barking orders at them. They’ve already started looking
for a new leader. In fact, they even asked me. Figured a former summoner would
make a perfect leader for the town.

Yuna: Why don’t you?

Dona: Too busy looking after myself, dear. Of course I’ll do what I can to keep
things from getting too far out of hand, but... Until Nooj gets back, things
are not going to be the same.

Yuna then checks Mushroom Rock Road for the third one.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Yaibal appeared at the scene.

Yaibal: Lady Yuna!

Yuna: More fiends?

Yaibal: Actually, we’ve received some unconfirmed reports of trouble brewing in
Bevelle. It seems a unit of New Yevon’s troops have been gearing up for a raid.
With Nooj gone, they’re hoping to strike quickly and catch us off guard. But
don’t worry about us! We won’t be so easily trapped! We’re planning to launch a
preemptive strike before they can attack. As soon as our preparations are
complete, we move on Bevelle!

Yuna: But you’re not even sure they’re planning an attack, are you?

Yaibal: In war, victory favors the bold! I must be off! Farewell!

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Yuna: Hm?

Shinra: Someone threw the CommSphere into the sea.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna then checks Bevelle for the last one. Maroda appeared at the scene.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Yuna: What are you doing?

Maroda: Well, for one, I’m running reconnaissance on New Yevon. The praetor’s
gone, fiends are on the loose—New Yevon is upside down. Fortunately, security
is lax, so even Youth League members like me can walk around in the open.

Guard: You there! What are you doing!

Maroda: Took them long enough. So long!

The CommSphere transmission is shut off.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Yuna: What are you doing?

Maroda: Well, for one, I’m running reconnaissance on New Yevon. The praetor’s
gone, fiends are on the loose—New Yevon is upside down. I overheard some
priests talking a little while ago. They said, “In times like these, we have no
choice but to seek the high summoner’s aid.”

Yuna: But, what do you think I can do?

Maroda: Well, if the Gullwings were on our side, I’m sure we’d be saying the
same thing. This is just between you and me, but the Youth League fell to
pieces the moment Nooj disappeared. Both groups are getting what they deserve
for relying too much on their leaders.

Guard: You there! What are you doing!

Maroda: Took them long enough. So long!

Maroda and the guards left the scene.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna is finished with the CommSphere and talks to Buddy.

Buddy: Looks like Nooj and Baralai still haven’t come back. And now Gippal’s
vanished, too. Spira’s three leading big shots have all gone AWOL. If I was one
of their followers, I’d be pretty worried—and scared.

Shinra: Tension between the two groups is getting volatile. It won’t be long
before things get very ugly.

Paine: And Vegnagun’s on the loose. You can bet Shuyin’s controlling that thing.

Rikku: I wonder if Gippal and the others are trying to destroy it...

Paine: Maybe.

Rikku: Ooh, nothing makes sense anymore. I mean just what the heck are we
supposed to do!

Yuna: Nooj spoke to me on the Farplane. He told me to take care of things
topside. As if it were the simplest thing to do, really. And everything was
going so well. (narrating) At least, that’s what I thought. (talking) I changed
my mind. I want to do something. Nooj asked me to help and that’s what I’ll do.

Brother: Oac, drec ec dra Yuna dryd E ghuf. (Yes, this is the Yuna that I
know.) Alrighty! Let’s smash that action figure! We’ll risk our lives and
protect Spira from Vegnagun!

Yuna: No, I think...there has to be something we can do besides fighting.

Paine: Like what?

Yuna: With its leaders gone, Spira’s falling apart. Maybe we can bring people
back together.

Rikku: Yeah! Yeah! Great idea there, Yunie! So like, what are we gonna do? Huh?

There’s a short pause.

Paine: Sing campfire songs?

Brother: Ooooh! That is it! All of Spira will be the captive of Yuna’s singing
and dancing!

Rikku: Great idea!

Shinra: I can handle the techie stuff.

Yuna: H-Hang on!

Rikku: I know! I know! I bet Tobli would help!

Buddy: Where is he now?

Paine: The Moonflow.

Buddy: Gullwings...

Brother: Move out!

Yuna: (narrating) I began this journey hoping to find you. But I know now that
may never happen. Still, I will keep walking these roads. I have to find where
they connect. I have to see for myself.

Shinra asked Yuna if she wants to check the CommSpheres. Yuna decided to
connect to Mi’ihen Highroad. Rin appeared at the scene.

Rin: Hm?

Yuna: Is something wrong?

Rin: Lately a number of strange events have been occurring here on the
Highroad. Our hover was destroyed. Also, the drone machina malfunctioned. I’ve
launched an investigation, but clues have been hard to come by. Forgive me for
asking at such a busy time, but might I request your help in this matter?

Yuna: Certainly.

Rin: I am relieved to hear it. With your help, the mystery will be solved in no
time.

Yuna: But, what should we do?

Rin: I have placed a number of modified Commspheres along the Highroad for use
in our investigation. Should you find anything suspicious, please report it to
me.

Yuna gets it.

Rin: With that, I bid you good luck.

After that, Yuna talks to Buddy.

Buddy: Next stop: the Moonflow! Sorry, kids, no time for side trips. You ready
for a little Tobli hunt?

Yuna: You bet!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the Moonflow. In there…

Yuna: Huh?

Buddy: Yikes, sorry! Must’ve dropped you off at the wrong place. As long as
you’re there, why not take a little stroll?

Yuna’s group moves on. On their way...

Man 1: Hey, you! You haven’t seen Tobli anywhere around here, have you?

Man 2: We have word that he’s somewhere nearby.

Tobli appeared.

Man 1: Huh? Aha! There you are!

Tobli ran away. The three men run after him. The three men then lose sight of
Tobli.

Man 1: Where’d he go?

Tobli appeared from far distance.

Man 1: Ah! That obnoxious midget! Found him!

Yuna’s group and the three men run after Tobli. After the three men lose sight
of Tobli again…

Man 1: Where’d that little ball of pudge learn to run like that? I’m beat.

Man 2: We can’t keep up…

Tobli appeared from distance.

Man 1: Come back here, you beak-faced fraud!

Yuna’s group follows the two men running after Tobli. In the passenger waiting
area…

Man 1: Has Tobli passed this way, sir?

Man 3: Eh, nope, can’t say I’ve seen him. He must still be on the south bank.

Man 4: Go take anudder good look.

Man 1: Yes, sir.

Yuna’s group follows the man to the south bank. They saw Tobli running down the
bank and Yuna’s group and the man ran after him. After a little while, Tobli
rode the scooter the opposite way scaring many people in the process. Yuna’s
ran the opposite way as to where Tobli rode the scooter. In the next area next
to the passenger waiting area, the scooter crashed also scaring many people in
the process. In the shoopuf wharf, Paine talks to the Hypello and got info on
Tobli’s whereabouts.

Paine: He says Tobli crossed the Moonflow.

Hypello: Follow on shoopuf, yesh?

Yuna’s group talks to the Hypello.

Hypello: Ride the shoopuf?

Yuna: Let me on!

Hypello: All aboards?

Yuna’s group takes the shoopuf to the next wharf. In the next area near
Guadosalam…

Man 1: He has to be here somewhere.

Man 2: You don’t suppose he climbed into one a dem trees, do ya?

The man kicks and pounds the tree and Tobli stepped on his head and came down.

Man 1: You! I’m gonna! You’re gonna…KILL!

Tobli ran away and Yuna’s group and the man ran after him. Then a shoopuf went
the other way scaring the man away. Yuna’s group then ran after Tobli.

Tobli: Hi, hi, what can I do for you? What brings you here?

Rikku: Well…

Rikku told everything about what they want to Tobli.

Tobli: Spectacularly spectacular! ‘Twill be a yummy Yunapalooza indeed! ‘Twill
go down in history! I most definitely, definitely want to arrange it! Can I,
can I?

Rikku: Yup-yup!

Tobli: A minor detail. Where oh where should it be?

Yuna: Well, the more people we can gather together, the better.

Tobli: Aha! Then how about the Thunder Plains? Yes! You could practically pack
a plethora of people in that place.

Paine: Now, how do we get people to come?

Tobli: Simple, simple! Leave it to me! My power PR team will push it pronto!
Oh, boys!

A group of Hypellos appeared at the scene.

Hypello: Advertising ish our shpeshalty. We’ll get you your shpectatators.

Paine: Are you sure about this?

Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Buddy.

Buddy: Brother’s orders. Bring every last Hypello back with you.

Yuna’s group and everyone board the Celsius.

Buddy: We’re over the Calm Lands now. We ready to go?

Brother: Grab everyone you see! We do not want anyone in Spira to miss this!

Hypello: Leave it to ush.

Yuna: Will they be all right?

Hypello: Be back in a jiffy, shishter.

Hypellos start diving off the Celsius to their designated areas.

Rikku: They’ve got guts.

Buddy: All right, next stop!

In the Bridge…

Yuna: What are you up to?

Shinra: A project. I’m engineering a giant sphere screen for the stage. That
way, even people way in the back will be able to see you.

Yuna: Your invention?

Shinra: Not to mention we’re still picking up lots of waves through the
CommSpheres.

Yuna: Nice work.

Buddy: All the Hypello have been deployed.

Brother: Achtung, baby! To the concert grounds!

Yuna checks the CommSphere and connects to Besaid Island. In there, Beclem is
at the scene.

Beclem: Oh, it’s you. You’ve probably heard, but I’ve been called back to Youth
League headquarters. It is a shame, though…having to leave Besaid in the hands
of slackers.

Yuna: Besaid will be fine, Wakka’s there to keep an eye on things.

Beclem: Hmph. Small consolation. If you ask me, his brother was ten times the
man Wakka is.

Yuna: You knew Chappu?

Beclem: We fought in the Crusaders together. He always talked about Wakka.
Said, “My brother’s the greatest person in Spira!” Imagine my surprise to find
out the legendary Wakka’s nothing more than a wishy-washy wimp. There are so
many things I’d wanted to talk to Wakka about… But not anymore.

Yuna: Things? What kind of things?

Beclem: Memories. Well, that’s enough chit-chat. I need to get ready to leave.

Yuna connects to Kilika Island in the Port. Dona is inside by herself.

Dona: Without you, the house seems so empty. I can’t bear it. I wake up each
morning, but without seeing your face it’s as though the day hasn’t really
begun. So please. Please! Come home, Barthello! This is so not me.

Hypello appeared at the scene.

Hypello: Come to the conshert.

Dona: You. You did not see anything.

Hypello: I didn’t shee a thing.

Yuna connects to Kilika Port again. In Dona’s house...

Dona: You seem to have forgotten exactly who it is you’re supposed to be
guarding! I ought to fire you for just up and leaving me the way you did. But I
suppose I’m partly to blame, letting you get away with so much. I didn’t give
you proper supervision. We both need to do some soul-searching. Barthello,
we’re leaving. Yes, that should do.

Shinra: I didn’t shee a thing.

Yuna connect to Kilika Port for the third time. The Commsphere is being moved
by Dona.

Dona: The balloons are sure to reach the temple.

Dona ties a balloon to the Commsphere.

Dona: Let’s give it a try.

Shinra: This can’t be good.

The Commsphere floats up in the air by the balloon.

Dona: All my best for the concert!

Yuna connects to Kilika Island one more time. In the temple, Barthello appeared
at the scene.

Barthello: Hey, look! These are some balloons that Dona sent us. So we decided
to send some back.

Yuna: What about you?

Barthello: It’s no good. No matter how many times I try, I over-inflate the
balloons and they pop. Oh! Will my feelings be stranded here forever? Dona!

The Commsphere became broken.

Shinra: Such wanton and vocal destruction.

Yuna connects to Zanarkand Ruins. Isaaru stands there with a Hypello. Isaaru
saw Yuna from the Commsphere.

Isaaru: Yuna?

Yuna: Hello!

Isaaru: The Hypello told me the news. You’re having a concert? Using the power
of song to unite Spira. Is that it? I know you can do it. Or rather, you’re the
only one of us who could do that. Good luck, Yuna.

Yuna connects to Zanarkand Ruins again. Isaaru stands there.

Isaaru: Using machina to talk like this still doesn’t feel right to me. Working
with Cid, I did get used to the idea, but I have my doubts. Maroda often laughs
at me and says I’m behind the times.

Yuna: We talked with Maroda using one of these. He’s in Bevelle.

Isaaru: Bevelle? Really? How is Bevelle these days?

Yuna: It’s not looking too good. They can’t find anyone to lead in place of
Baralai.

Isaaru: Well, I wouldn’t be surprised if they tried to push some of their
problems on you, High Summoner.

Yuna: Well…hat would they expect me to do?

Isaaru walks away a little.

Isaaru: I had no idea things had gotten so bad... Thank you for telling me.

Yuna connects to Zanarkand Ruins one more time. Isaaru lays down in the area.

Isaaru: I wonder what I’m supposed to be protecting. Hmm…

Yuna takes the elevator to the Cabin. In there…

Barkeep: Rehearshal shtarting.

Rikku is in her songstress outfit.

Rikku: Hey, Yunie, hurry up and change!

Yuna changes to her songstress outfit and both Yuna and Rikku practice dancing.
After that…

Yuna: It’s almost time. Do you think people will show up?

Rikku: You betcha! The Thunder Plains’ll be packed! But what’re you gonna sing?

Yuna: Umm…

Yuna hums the song “1000 Words”.

Rikku: Wow, did you write that?

Yuna: It’s more like I felt it. I can hear it echoing inside me.

Rikku: Lenne?

Yuna: I think so. I don’t know much about her, but I’m learning more and more.
Bits and pieces of her memories keep pouring in. It’s like…t’s like I can feel
what she was feeling!

Rikku: Thus shall Lenne’s scattered thoughts be woven into bittersweet
song…Something like that?

Yuna: Hey, that was poetic.

Rikku giggles.

Paine: We’ll be arriving soon. After Buddy drops us off, he and the others will
go pick up the spectators.

Yuna: So we won’t be able to board for a while.

Paine: You got it.

Yuna takes the elevator to the Bridge and talks to Buddy.

Buddy: We’re over the Thunder Plains. You ready to land?

Yuna: Let’s land.

Yuna’s group proceeds to Thunder Plains. After that…

Hypello: Hello, Gullwings. Good to shee yoo. Are yoo ready to shing your shong?

Yuna: Yeah, more or less. You ready?

Hypello: We’ve got a shticky shituation. Shum fiends have shown up to shnack on
the shpectatators.

The camera shows the fiend going inside a cave.

Paine: Pre-concert hurtfest time.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the cavern. Later, they fight Zalamander. After Yuna’s
group defeats Zalamander, they exit the cavern. Outside, the Celsius appeared.

Buddy: We’re landing! If we cram any more people on board, this thing is gonna
fall out of the sky.

Yuna boards the Celsius. In the Bridge, Yuna talks to Brother.

Brother: Hey, we brought in people from New Yevon and the Youth League. They’re
all outside, on the concert grounds.

Yuna talks to Rikku.

Rikku: Hey, uh, the crowd is acting kinda funny.

Shinra: Let me pull the video up.

Shinra views what is going on outside. People are arguing with each other.

Rikku: Uh-oh. This could get messy.

Buddy: No kidding. The two groups have been bumping heads since they got on the
airship. Yeah… Looks like they’re itchin’ to start somethin’.

Shinra: I’ll pick up the audio.

Youth League Member 1: The Yevonites are here, too? How am I supposed to enjoy
the concert with them stinking up the air?

New Yevon Member 1: Hey! You Youth League dogs will never be worthy of hearin’
the high summoner sing!

New Yevon Member 2: If the praetor were here, he’d never let these maggots walk
around, spouting their nonsense.

Youth League Member 2: What I wanna know is, where’d Nooj go? It’s his fault
that Spira’s falling apart! What kind of leader abandons his people when they
need him most?

The video ended.

Yuna: Don’t they ever stop?

Rikku: Seriously.

Paine: Well, Yuna? You’re the one who wanted to do something.

Yuna: Yeah, but… Right.

Paine: Hm. So let’s do something.

Yuna: Right, let’s do it!

Tobli came to the Bridge.

Tobli: Oh, catastrophic catastrophe! Dear me, dear me! What oh whatever should
I do? The spectators are making a spectacle! I don’t even want to speculate…
Please! Do something, Yuna!

Yuna: Leave it to us!

Yuna talks to Tobli.

Tobli: Yuna, we’re counting on you!

Yuna: On with the show!

Later…

Yuna: Y!

Rikku: R!

Paine: P!

Yuna’s group placed their hands in the center.

Yuna: Ready?

Yuna, Rikku, and Paine: Let’s do it!

Outside, people are still talking to each other and then Yuna’s group came out
to the deck. Yuna in her songstress outfit speaks into the microphone.

Yuna: One thousand years ago, before the time of Sin… Spira was torn in two,
divided by a terrible war. This was Spira’s great mistake. Out of the rift left
by this terrible conflict, Sin was born. In only two short years, Spira has
shaken off its unhappy past. We have moved on. Now, Spira grows brighter with
each passing day. That light is our strength. I don’t want to see it fade. Do
you? There are so many of us, each with different ideas and different beliefs.
Of course we sometimes disagree, and arguments will happen. But our hearts can
and should always be one. (with another voice speaking at the same time)
Believe with me: Even if we’re torn apart, our feelings will unite us. That’s
what this song is about.

We watch a movie of Yuna singing the theme song “1000 Words”. While singing,
the camera views the scene of Zanarkand, Shuyin and Lenne when they were shot
by the soldiers. Yuna changed into Lenne for some reasons. Then Lenne appeared
singing along with Yuna. Later when the song was almost finished, Lenne
disappeared and the area reverts to normal. Yuna finishes singing and started
to have tears coming out of her eyes. She kneels and Rikku and Paine comforts
her. Later in the Cabin…

Paine: Yuna…

Yuna: (sobs a little) I’m all right… I’m fine, really. It’s passed now.

Yuna wipes the tears from her eyes as Paine comforts her. Rikku appeared at the
scene.

Paine: What did Shinra say?

Rikku: Umm, he said it might be some kind of, uh, interference with the sphere
waves. Yunie’s dressphere and the sphere screen reacted with each other and,
uh… The consciousness burned into the dressphere was projected onto the screen!
Or something like that.

Paine: Okay, but that doesn’t explain why it happened.

Rikku: When I asked, he said, “I’m only a kid.”

Yuna: It’s Lenne. I was singing her feelings. During the song, I could feel
them welling up inside until they just...burst.

Paine: So the people we saw were Lenne…and Shuyin?

Later…

Paine: Everyone’s waiting. Let’s go.

Yuna takes the elevator to the bridge. In there...

Maechen: ‘Twas a magnificent melody, Lady Yuna. The onlookers were all quite
enchanted.

Yuna: If it brings Spira together—even a little—then I’m glad.

Maechen: Indeed, I believe it shall. As you sang, not a soul could help but
realize the folly of their tiresome squabbling. Fist once raised in anger
became welcoming hands offering solace to a tearful neighbor. I must admit that
I, too, shed my share of tears the moment Lenne appeared.

Rikku: You know Lenne?

Maechen: Of course. Would you like to hear—

Yuna: Yes! Tell us!

Maechen: Where to begin? About a thousand years ago, Lenne was a popular
songstress in Zanarkand. The talk of the town, you might say. In a more
peaceful age, she might have lived out her years as a performer. But the
times—and her talents—did not allow such a thing to be. You see, Lenne’s gift
for singing was matched by her genius in the summoner’s arts. When then Machina
War began, all summoners were sent to the front lines. Zanarkand was hopelessly
outnumbered, and Lenne knew she would not return home alive. Nonetheless, she
was prepared to lay down her life to protect her people. Yet there was one
person who refused to let Lenne die. Yes, he would do anything to save her. He
was...a young man, Lenne’s lover.

Rikku: Shuyin?

Maechen: I...don’t know. His name has been lost to history. Whatever his name,
the youth endeavored to steal the enemy’s machina weapon and save Lenne.
However...

Yuna: It didn’t go well.

Maechen: The lovers met a truly tragic end. Those images we all witnessed are
most certainly a record of their last moments.

Maechen later left the scene.

Paine: So Shuyin was Lenne’s lover.

Rikku: And so that means the weapon that he tried to steal to save her must
have been, umm...

Yuna: Vegnagun, right?

Rikku: I think I can kinda understand how he felt...trying so hard to save
someone. Two years ago, I was the same. Trying to find some way...some way to
save you.

Yuna: That was enough. Knowing that you were on my side... I’ll always be
grateful to you.

Paine: Maybe Lenne felt the same way. The man she loved, he struggled to save
her. He fought till his very last breath for her. I think that Lenne’s final
words might have been happy ones: “I love you.”

Yuna: Yes, there is a connection. But wait... Everything is all wrong. He never
heard. The one person she wanted to tell... He never heard her words.

An alert sound can be heard.

Buddy: Whaddaya know, it’s Leblanc’s gang. They wanna see Yuna. I’ll have them
wait in the engine room.

Yuna’s group takes the elevator to the Engine Room. In there, Yuna’s group
talks to Leblanc.

Leblanc: I’ve been hunting around since we last met, and I happened to find a
rather peculiar sphere. It shows my Noojie-Woojie! For some reason that chump
Baralai is there, too. But it’s from some years ago. I’m afraid it’s not much
help now, loves.

Yuna’s group received Crimson Sphere 5.

Leblanc: How about you? Have you tracked down my Noojie yet?

Yuna: Nooj is on the Farplane. I saw him there with Gippal.

Leblanc: The Farplane? What is he doing in a place like that?

Yuna: I think he’s searching for Baralai and Vegnagun.

Leblanc: Oh, so Baralai is the one pulling Vegnagun’s strings! I should have
known!

Yuna: No, that’s not it. How do I explain...

Leblanc: Never mind, I don’t have time for this. Boys, we’re going to the
Farplane!

Ormi: (whining) Anything but that, boss!

Logos: We’re no match for that sort of opponent!

Leblanc: Now don’t be silly. The power of love conquers all! It’s decided.
We’re going to save Spira!

Yuna: Yes, ma’am!

Leblanc: Well then, get this tanker moving!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the Bridge. In there, Yuna talks to Shinra.

Shinra: What have we here? Looks like a transmission, but it’s pretty weak.

Yuna: What is?

Shinra: Hm, I’m getting signals from the CommSphere we dropped in that hole,
but I can’t seem to connect.

Leblanc, Logos, and Ormi came into the Bridge.

Leblanc: Enough, little boy. Move aside!

Leblanc used her fan and struck the console that Shinra was using and the
CommSphere connected.

Leblanc: See? It connected.

The camera views the CommSphere in the Farplane.

Shinra: Inconceivable!

Gippal: Impressive machina! An invention like this could change the world.
Whoever came up with this is a genius.

Shinra: He’s got good taste.

Gippal: Guess I’m a genius, too, for fixing it! Anybody home?

Yuna: Gippal!

Shinra: I don’t think he can hear us.

Gippal: No response. Hm.

Nooj: Some genius.

Leblanc: Noojie!

Nooj: If you’re done playing, let’s go.

Gippal: Chill out.

Nooj: Lost your nerve?

Gippal: Hey, we’re talking about Vegnagun. How the heck do you fight that
thing? We can’t even walk up to it without freakin’ it out.

Nooj: Or making it mad. But I’ve got a plan.

Gippal: If it doesn’t work?

Nooj: Death will be my apology.

Gippal: Whatever, man. When a Deathseeker dies, that’s no apology. What about
Leblanc?

Nooj: Well, she—

The CommSphere cuts off.

Leblanc: (frustrated) Why did it cut off like that! Just when he was getting to
the juicy bits!

Shinra: It’s not my fault.

Leblanc: What a piece of junk! Forget it. I’ll go ask him myself.

Leblanc, Ormi and Logos left the scene.

Brother: What about the Gullwings?

Yuna: I think that we should help you Nooj. But first... I want to try talking
to Shuyin. I have to tell him how Lenne felt. I’m sure he’ll understand. How?
We can’t exactly make an appointment.

Paine: We’ll just have to jump into one of those holes.

Rikku: Together, this time!

Yuna’s group gives each other, a high five.

Brother: Roger. Gullwings! We move out! Celsius, full speed ahead!

The Celsius takes off.

END OF CHAPTER 4

Later at the Deck...

Rikku: Vegnagun’s definitely bothering me, but there are other things we need
to worry about, too. Look at Spira. It’s a total mess.

Paine: Shall we go check things out?

Rikku: I don’t know if we have time.

Yuna: Well...let’s play it by ear.

Paine: Way to take control.

Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Brother.

Brother: Gullwings! Round up! It’s strategy time!

Yuna takes the elevator to the Bridge. In there...

Shinra: We know Vegnagun is in the deepest reaches of the Farplane. The only
way in is to jump into one of those holes.

Buddy: Yeah, but which one?

Yuna: There’s one in Besaid, one in Kilika, and one in Djose Temple.

Paine: Don’t forget the Calm Lands. The cave at the bottom of the gorge.

Shinra: And the hole that Vegnagun opened up in the Bevelle Underground.

Rikku: So which one do we jump into?

Brother: Who cares! We just pick a hole and dive! Yuna! You can decide which
hole we pick.

Yuna takes a rest at the Cabin. A little later, Yuna gets up.

Brother: What…what should I do?

Barkeep: If yoo love her, tell her how yoo feel, yesh?

Brother: No! I have said too much.

Barkeep: Mish Yoona turns her back on yoo?

Brother: Maybe it is better that way. I… I like Yuna’s back.

Barkeep: She hash nice backshide, yesh.

Brother: Yeah… No! No, no! These past two years, Yuna has always been looking
ahead…into the distance. Always, her back is to me. I like this Yuna. Even more
than a Yuna that is facing me. E muja ran. (I love her.)

Barkeep: The heart of man ish comapaplicated.

Brother: You know what I say! We two are born bachelors! Yes?

Barkeep: Shpeak for yoorshelf, shunny?

Darling: Hi, shweetie.

Barkeep: Thish ish my Darling, yesh?

Brother: Wha… When?

Darling: It ish the design of deshtiny.

Barkeep: We in love at firsht shight.

Darling: Oh, shtop…

Brother: Ynkr, E lyr’d dyga id. (Argh, I can’t take it.)

Brother left the scene. Yuna takes the elevator to the Engine Room. In there,
as Yuna tries to leave, Buddy came in.

Buddy: Better keep your distance. Wouldn’t wanna lose a finger or something.
(looking at the engines) Mm! That’s my baby.

Yuna: It’s like you’re talking to a person!

Buddy: Of course! After all, this ship is one of the Gullwings too, y’know.

Yuna: She’s been around longer than me, huh?

The camera views the Celsius flying in the air.

Buddy: Me and her met for the first time right after you brought us this Calm
of yours. I’d caught word that an old airship was at the bottom of the sea way
up in the north. Me and Brother made our way through a sea of ice. A fog moved
in, so thick we couldn’t tell west from east. On top of that we were freezing
our blitzballs off. Yep, I thought we were done for. Then it appeared above us:
a single gull, flying along out of nowhere. As if it had come to save us,
right? We didn’t have a lot of options, so me and Brother chased after that
gull with everything we had left. And by some stroke of luck, we found this
ship nestled within the ice.

The camera views the Engine Room.

Buddy: Along with our winged rescuer.

Yuna: Oh! So that’s why we’re the Gullwings!

Buddy: And that’s not all.

Yuna: Yeah?

Buddy: Actually, never mind.

Yuna: Buddy! Please?

The camera views the Celsius flying in the air again.

Buddy: We were lucky to find the airship, but we were still on thin ice, so to
speak. See, we had nothing to eat. We were nearly dead from hunger. Yep, I
really thought we were done for. Then, it appeared above us, out of nowhere: a
single gull. As if it had come to save us, right? With the very last of our
strength, we bagged that bird, and then we, uh…

The camera views the Engine Room again.

Yuna: Buddy?

Buddy: What?

Yuna: Thanks, I think I’ve heard enough.

Buddy: That bad? That bad, hmm?

Yuna proceeds to the Bridge. In there, Yuna talks to Buddy.

Buddy: We got a message from Besaid a little while ago. Looks like Lulu finally
had her baby.

Rikku: Really?

Yuna: Let’s go see them!

Buddy: There’s a message from Kilika, too. Apparently things are getting a
little messy.

Yuna: More bickering?

Buddy: Sort of. Now it looks like they’re bickering over the fact that all the
bickering’s stopped.

Paine: Figures.

Before Yuna’s group decide to jump into the Temple’s hole, they proceed to
Zanarkand Ruins. In there...

Rikku: It’s finally quieted down, huh?

Yuna’s group approaches the campfire.

Paine: Well, I guess your memories are finally safe, Yuna.

Yuna: Yeah. But... I have to learn to be stronger. Even places full of
memories... Even a place like this can’t last forever. I need to accept that.

Paine: You want to not care?

Yuna: That’s not what I’m saying.

Rikku: Just be yourself.

Yuna: I guess. Yeah, you’re right. (narrating) Perhaps one day, I’ll find
something more precious. But until that day comes, I want to protect this
place. The monkeys can’t do it alone.

Paine: Do you see something?

Yuna: Maybe.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Besaid Island.

Wakka: Hey!

Wakka appeared.

Wakka: It’s a boy! You wanna meet him?

Yuna: Yeah!

In the village, Yuna’s group talks to Wakka and Lulu. Lulu approaches Yuna’s
group with her new born baby.

Rikku: Ur, ra ec cu lida! (Oh, he is so cute!)

Yuna: Look at his hands! They’re so tiny!

Wakka: What do you think? He’s cute, ya? Good thing he don’t look like me.

Yuna: Don’t be silly. Look, he’s got your mouth.

Wakka: You think so?

Rikku: What’s his name?

Lulu: I think the Calm will end before Wakka make up his mind.

Yuna: Well, you better decide soon.

Wakka: No rushing, ya? Naming my son is my first important decision as a
parent. Becoming a good father requires intense emotional preparation, ya?

Rikku: How long you planning on preparing?

Wakka: Until, uh...my preparations are done, ya?

Yuna proceeds to the beach and talks to Beclem.

Beclem: Has Wakka settled on a name for his kid?

Yuna: No, not yet.

Beclem: Never could make up his mind.

Beclem was going to leave, but stopped for a moment.

Beclem: I have something here. I’d like you to give it to him.

Beclem gives a sphere to Yuna.

Beclem: It’s a memory of a war buddy. I’d give it to him myself, but... You
understand.

Yuna’s group received War Buddy Sphere.

Man: All aboard! We’ll be settin’ sail shortly!

Beclem: See he gets it.

A blitzball falls down near Beclem’s foot.

Keepa: Sorry!

Beclem made his special move and kicks the blitzball into the Aurochs and
knocks some of them down with it.

Keepa: Whoa!

Beclem: Practice harder!

Keepa: Hey!

Jassu: Next time we meet, let’s blitz, ya?

Datto: Yeah! Show us that shot again sometime!

Beclem: Slackers to the very end.

Beclem boards the ship and the boat left. Yuna’s group proceeds to the village.
On their way, they talk to Wakka.

Yuna: What’s the matter?

Wakka: I thought I’d go say goodbye to Beclem.

Yuna: He’s already gone.

Wakka: Oh.

Yuna: He gave me this sphere.

Wakka: For me? Hey, let’s see.

Yuna plays the sphere.

Chappu: Hey, Wakka, remember that time... Nah, you prob’ly forgot. Somethin’ I
told you back when we were kids, ya? There’s a sphere on the island, I said.
Showin’ Mom and Dad. I lied. Truth is, there’s no such sphere. I’m sorry. Back
then, you’d lecture me no matter what I did. “Someone has to keep you in line,
ya?” I guess I was kinda bitter. That’s why I made up that story about the
sphere.

Wakka: If you got time to take pictures, you got time to pray! Especially since
you’re joining the Crusaders.

Chappu: Enough with the preaching!

Wakka: Someone has to keep you in line, with our parents not around.

Chappu: Knock it off with the surrogate parenting and give us both a break. I
just need you to be my brother.

The recording of the sphere ended.

Wakka: His brother, ya. I don’t know why he just couldn’t come out and say it.
Anyways... You guys stay in the village till nightfall, at least, ya?

Yuna’s group is on their way to the village.

Yuna: (narrating) That night, Wakka gathered everyone in the village around the
fire.

Wakka: Well you probably know why I called you all here, huh? I’d like to
introduce the newest member of Besaid Village.

Datto: We already met him!

Botta: So you picked a name yet?

Jassu: Don’t tell me this is a brainstorming session!

Wakka: Like I’d do something like that! I chose a name. His name is Vidina.
Everybody take good care of him, ya?

Everyone is excited about Lulu’s new born baby. Wakka sits down near Yuna.

Yuna: Congrats.

Wakka: I always try to cram myself into some kinda mold, you know? A blitzer,
or a guardian, or a follower of Yevon... And now, a father. I always get so
wound up about what I should be. But you know, in the end I’m just me. Anyway,
I can’t keep coming up with new Wakkas all the time, eh? So it looks like I’ll
just have to start doing things my way. That’s the way I’ll write our story.

Yuna: Hang in there, Dad.

Wakka: Sin was nothin’ compared to diaper changing, ya?

A little later with Wakka and Lulu alone...

Wakka: Hey. Sorry it took me so long to decide on a name, Lu.

Lulu: It’s all right. I knew it would be worth the wait. I had faith.

Wakka: You? Had faith in me?

Lulu: Wakka, we’re in this together. Whether you see it or not, I really do
rely on you.

Wakka: Guess I’d better not drop the ball, ya?

Lulu: You won’t.

Yuna’s group watches Wakka and Lulu from distance.

Rikku: They’re in their own little world.

Paine: Come on.

Yuna: Let’s not bother them.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius and pays a visit to Kilika Island. In there,
people are trying to get through the gate to the woods and the temple.

Boy: Let me go to the temple! I wanna see my sister!

Guard: This road is closed. I can’t let you through!

Man: What’s wrong with wanting to see our families!

Guard: But, without orders, I can’t let you pass!

Dona: My my my my...

Dona arrived at the scene.

Dona: Some boys don’t know how to behave. Haven’t you noticed you’re the only
one still nitpicking over party politics? New Yevon this, Youth League that.
It’s called a complex. Get over it. Weren’t you listening to the song?

Rikku moves her elbow near Yuna back and forth.

Dona: Now let them through.

Guard: But, without the order...

Dona: I just gave you an order.

Guard: R-Right away!

The guard opens the gate and let the people through.

Boy: Sis, I’m coming!

Rikku: Let’s check it out.

In the woods, people are going through the gates and heading to the temple. The
camera shows Yuna’s group.

Paine: Songs are powerful.

Yuna: I guess everyone felt it.

Rikku: What you felt?

Yuna: No, not me. Lenne.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the temple. After they left the woods, Dona appeared
and saw them heading to the temple. Near the temple, Barthello and the soldiers
appeared.

Barthello: Dona!

Dona: Hmph. Well, I... It seems to me you have forgotten who it is you are
supposed to be guarding. I ought to fire you for just up and leaving me the way
you di—

Barthello: Dona!

Dona: Don’t interrupt! I’ve been practicing these lines for days, so be quiet
and let me finish!

The people laughed. Barthello came down and talks to Dona.

Barthello: Dona, please forgive me! I’ll apologize as much as you want! Don’t
say I can’t be your guardian anymore! I’ll never leave your side again.

The people went “aww”.

Yuna: That’s so sweet.

Dona: Shut up. (to Barthello) You’re making such a scene! How humiliating.
Don’t think that you’re off the hook for embarrassing me like this. You’ll be
making this up to me for the rest of your life.

Barthello: Dona!

Dona approaches closer to Barthello.

Dona: Barthello, we’re leaving.

Later...

Yuna: Wow...

Glitters and balloons were everywhere.

Rikku: It’s so pretty.

The Celsius appeared at the scene.

Buddy: Hey, what’s with all the balloons?

Brother: Oooh! A Gullwings welcome bash? Party!

Rikku: Dryd guccat dra suut. (That killed the mood.)

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Luca. In there...

Shelinda: The day that blitz freaks across Spira have been waiting for is
finally here! That’s right, folks! Blitzball season has begun!

Yuna’s group appeared at the scene.

Rikku: Wow, is it time of year already?

Yuna: I wonder if Wakka and the gang are here.

Buddy: The Aurochs aren’t coming. I hear they’ve got their hands full with
babysitting.

Rikku: Aww! They should’ve just brought Vidina along!

Buddy: And guess what? They want the Gullwings to compete in their place.

Rikku: Are you serious? All right! I’ve always wanted to play blitzball!

Paine: Why do we have to play?

Brother: Don’t sweat the small stuff. Leave everything to me! Me!

Buddy: So are we in or what?

Yuna’s group decided to play later. Yuna’s group moves on and later near Luca’s
north exit, Yuna practiced her whistle blowing call.

Yuna: I practiced.

The screen switches to Yuna and Tidus two years ago practicing their whistle
blowing call.

Yuna: (narrating) Wherever I go, Spira is full of places tied to my memories.

The screen switches to the present time.

Yuna: (narrating) Memories of my journey. Memories of you.

Yuna suddenly saw a tiny moogle.

Yuna: Huh?

Paine: What’s wrong?

Yuna: But it’s... You can’t see it?

Rikku: See what?

Paine: You need a break?

The tiny moogle floats away.

Yuna: Wait here!

Yuna follows the tiny moogle floating away. After Yuna caught up with the
moogle, the screen switches to Yuna and Tidus two years ago in Luca plaza.
After that, the screen switches to the present time.

Yuna: (narrating) No one else can see it?

Yuna continues to follow the tiny moogle. After catching up with it for the
second time, the screen switches to Yuna and Tidus two years ago where Tidus
teaches Yuna how to try the whistle blowing call. After that, Yuna continues to
follow the tiny moogle. After catching up with it for the third time, the
screen switches to Yuna and her friends at the dock two years ago. After that,
the screen switches to the present.

Yuna: (narrating) These are our memories. Yours and mine. But...I don’t think
I’m ready to let them be memories yet. (speaking to the tiny moogle) Maybe I’m
confused, but... It’s okay.

The tiny moogle disappeared.

Paine: What’s with you?

Yuna: A dream, I think. My heart won’t stop pounding!

Rikku: That’s not a dream. Not if your heart’s pounding like that. You and
someone you care about are connected somehow. That’s what it is.

Paine: How worldly.

Rikku: I’ve felt that way, too.

Paine: About who?

Rikku: I dunno.

Paine: Spill it.

Rikku: Maybe we can trade secrets.

Paine: You drive a hard bargain.

Yuna: (narrating) I guess everyone’s like this. We cling to our secrets, our
doubts, our memories...we’re never able to put them aside. Even though they
confuse us, there are some things we can only find in that confusion. I
think...it’s okay to feel that way.

The Celsius appeared at the scene. Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now
proceed to Mi’ihen Highroad. In there…

Woman: Our proprietor, Rin, is presenting the results of his investigation into
the Highroad’s troubles of late. Would you mind accompanying me to the Travel
Agency?

Yuna: Not at all.

READ THIS IF RIKKU IS THE CULPRIT

Yuna’s group enters the Travel Agency and then exits to join Rin and the people
outside.

Rin: I am glad you are all here. I would like to talk about the recent string
of incidents occurring on the Highroad.

The camera views the Chocobo Eater locked up in a wagon.

Rin: First, let us discuss the circumstances surrounding the hover crash. Marks
found along the Newroad seem to indicate something fell from the road into the
ravine below. The injured person found near the crashed hover has been
identified as its pilot. Now, let us consider the runaway drone machina. The
machina can only be configured for operation through a control panel behind the
Agency. Naturally, I considered that someone might have tampered with that
control panel. But something else could have caused the machina to malfunction.
Perhaps you have some time, Lady Yuna?

Yuna: A strong impact?

Rin: Precisely. An impact, were it strong enough, could also be enough to cause
a machina to malfunction. Such an impact would not necessarily require beastly
strength. Even someone weak could deal a forceful enough blow—with a little
help from nature. Suppose for example, someone were to jump down from a great
height… That would do it.

Rin: Now then, let us try to figure out who perpetrated these nefarious acts.
We already heard some testimony: The hover lost its balance and overturned
while attempting to avoid a passerby. But who could that passerby be? We found
footprints on one of the malfunctioning machina. So, let me ask you all: Has
anyone recently been to the ruins at the Highroad’s south end?

Yuna’s group raised their hands.

Rin: And does anyone recall jumping down from a great height?

Rin looks at Rikku who is the only one raising her hand on that question.

Rikku: What, no one else?

Rin: One final question: Who among you passed a hover on the Newroad the other
day?

Yuna and Paine raised their hands.

Paine: (to Rikku) We were together.

Rikku: Umm, I don’t remember?

Rin: Please try to recall what happened, Rikku.

In Rikku’s memory, she thinks of what happened during the event of Chapter 2.

Yuna: She looks happy.

Paine: Whatever works for her.

Yuna: Shall we?

Rikku runs and caused the hover passing by to fall into the ravine. Then, the
screen shows Rikku jumping down on a drone machina. After that, the memory
ended.

Rikku: It was me!

Rin: Precisely. The hover crashed while trying to avoid hitting you. And you
caused the drone machina to malfunction when you landed on it. You, Rikku, are
the one who caused these two incidents to occur.

Rikku: (kneeling) Waaaah…

Rin: I am sure you meant no harm, but your carelessness invited disaster. Allow
me to determine Rikku’s sentence, if I may.

Rikku: What sentence?

Later, Rikku is picking up the trashes in the highroad. Yuna and Paine wait
patiently for Rikku to be finished with the trashes.

Paine: Didn’t expect trash duty.

Rikku: (tired) Phew! Glad that’s all over.

Yuna: You must be tired.

Rikku: E’s nayto du tnub. (I’m ready to drop.)

Rin riding a chocobo with another chocobo appeared at the scene.

Yuna: Why the chocobos?

Rin: They were being employed to power a ferryboat, so I purchased them.

Rikku: That’s great, but can I go home now? I picked up all the trash.

Rin: All of the trash?

Rikku: Every last piece. Look!

The camera views the highroad with chocobo feathers.

Rikku: Hu fyo… (No way…)

Rin: I thank you for your hard work.

Rin left the scene.

Paine: (to Rikku) Well, get plucking.

Rikku: This stinks! Feathers aren’t trash!

READ THIS IF CALLI IS THE CULPRIT

Yuna’s group enters the Travel Agency and then exits to join Rin and the people
outside.

Rin: I am glad you are all here. I would like to talk about the recent string
of incidents occurring on the Highroad.

The camera views the Chocobo Eater locked up in a wagon.

Rin: First, let us discuss the circumstances surrounding the hover crash. It
seems that not everyone wants machina around. Someone has been trying to
destroy the Highroad’s machina, starting with that hover. Lady Yuna, what do
you think would happen to a hover if you pushed it while it was stopped?

Yuna: It wouldn’t budge!

Rin: That is not necessarily true. Unless its brakes are set, a hover can be
moved with very little effort. Hovers are built to be light. Even a child could
move one with only a push. One could easily flag down the pilot and then
quickly push the hover off a cliff once it came to a halt.

There was a quick zoom in on some characters one at a time.

Rin: Which reminds me: marks found on the Newroad indicate something fell into
the ravine below. And it appears someone attempted to cover up those marks.
Hmm... Now let us consider the runaway drone machina. But then again, perhaps
“runaway” is not the best word. Machina don’t just run amuck on their own, now
do they? My investigation has revealed that the drone machina did not
malfunction. Rather, they were programmed to grow violent. Our culprit clearly
wanted people to fear machina. That is why he or she tampered with their
operation. By playing on people’s uneasiness, the guilty party hoped to purge
the Highroad of machina altogether. Hmm... the machina can only be configured
for operation through a control panel behind the Agency. One of my Al Bhed
assistants mentioned explaining the control panel’s operation to a certain
inquiring person. It appears that inquiring person might have passed the
operating instructions on to another inquiring person. Isn’t that right? You
shared what you learned with someone else.

One of the people nodded “yes”.

Rin: I would like to call a witness. This is the pilot of the crashed hover.
Surely you saw the one who pushed the hover off the Newroad?

The pilot told Rin everything.

Rin: ...I see. Just as I thought.

Later...

Rin: It just so happens that, during the investigation, a chocobo feather was
found near the broken hover. I have deduced that whoever owns this feather must
hold the key to solving our mystery. The feather has already been returned to
its owner.

The camera quickly views Calli.

Rin: That’s right. It was you, Calli.

Calli: Yes, I’m the one who did it. I thought if machina were gone, chocobos
might return to the Highroad.

Rin: First you knocked over the hover, then you sabotaged the other machina. Am
I correct?

Calli: Yes. But my plan worked a little too well. I didn’t mean to cause such a
mess! I-I got so scared. I was afraid to tell anyone about it. I’m so sorry!

Rin: I can understand your love for chocobos. But have you ever considered how
the chocobos feel?

Calli: What?

Rin: You are correct in assuming that chocobos would once again be needed if
machina were gone. They would be used in place of the hovers. But do you think
chocobos enjoy being used?

Calli: Well, um...

Rin: You of all people should know better.

Calli: Yes, sir.

Rin: Now then, everyone. She does seem to be repentant, but certainly some sort
of punishment is in order. How shall we have her atone for her crimes?

Later at the Travel Agency...

Paine: So all they’re making her do is work at the Agency?

Yuna: She said she’s sorry. Isn’t that enough?

Rin: At any rate, we at the Travel Agency are quite grateful for the help.

Rikku: Don’t be a slave driver, you hear?

Rin: Ah, but I have so much for her to do. In fact, I’ve prepared a new job
just for her. I will have her take care of all our chocobos.

Paine: Are you punishing her or rewarding her?

READ THIS IF RIN IS THE CULPRIT

Yuna’s group enters the Travel Agency. Then, they go outside and saw Rin with a
chocobo.

Rin: This chocobo was being employed to power a ferryboat, so I purchased him.

Yuna’s group approaches closer.

Yuna: What did you find out about the machina incidents?

Rin: I have deduced that both the hover incident and the malfunctioning machina
drones were accidents.

Paine: And what cause these “accidents”?

Rin: I am trying to clear that matter up. I asked my assistants to inspect our
machina some time ago.

Yuna: An inspection? I had heard that it was an experiment to synchronize the
machina.

Rikku: Yeah, I heard that, too.

Rin: Yes…while performing maintenance to keep the machina under control, we
also experimented with upgrading them.

Rikku: But you still couldn’t control them!

Rin: True, but—

Yuna: How about this: The modified machina that went haywire might have been
what attacked the hover. What’s more, synchronized machina always act in
unison. One malfunction could have triggered a similar effect in all the
Highroad’s machina. Something strange happened while we were investigating.
Someone cut off our CommSphere’s transmission.

Rin: It broke?

Yuna: No. It was broken. We could see the culprit through a separate
CommSphere. Rin…it was you.

Rin crossed his arms.

Yuna: That’s when I realized: you never intended to catch the culprit. When I
think about it, I’ve seen you on the Highroad a number of times now. Once
before the machina started acting strange. And then again after the incident
was over. But before I could talk to you, you vanished, as if you didn’t want
to be seen. When the hover was destroyed, you knew the upgraded machina were
behind it. But then, when you tried to investigate, they all rebelled at once.
So, you went around dismantling the rogue machina. Yes, while we were busy
fighting them. Then, you slipped away just as everything was settling down. I
am right, aren’t I?

Rin: You are suggesting that my decision to upgrade the machina resulted in a
number of casualties… …and that I tried to cover it up?

Yuna: You put the investigation in our hands because we were amateurs. You
hoped we would botch the case. And then, I kept calling you, even though I
didn’t have any leads. You would have objected to the meaningless
interruptions, if you really wanted to solve the case.

Rin: I see. It appears I have underestimated you, Yuna.

Rikku: Why, Rin?

Rin: If word got out that machina pose a danger, people would fear them and
stop using them.

Paine: So Yevon’s not alone in sweeping things under the rug.

Rin: I firmly believe that machina are an indispensable part of Spira’s
development. Even if there is another incident, I intend to conceal the
evidence.

Yuna: You really think people will follow you that way?

Rin: I am not alone in my thinking. We are researching ways to extract the vast
energy that sleeps in Spira, and use it to power machina.

Paine: You’re a jackass.

Rin: I will take that as a compliment.

Rin left the scene.

READ THIS IF CHOCOBO EATER IS THE CULPRIT

Yuna’s group enters the Travel Agency and then exits to join Rin and the people
outside.

Rin: I am glad you are all here. I would like to talk about the recent string
of incidents occurring on the Highroad.

The camera views the Chocobo Eater locked up in a wagon.

Rin: First, let us discuss the circumstances surrounding the hover crash. It
seems that not everyone wants machina around. Someone has been trying to
destroy the Highroad’s machina, starting with that hover. Investigation of the
Newroad yielded a vital clue: marks were found suggesting that something fell
into the ravine below. As you have no doubt realized, someone on something
pushed the hover off the road. Additional marks were found on the hover
indicating it had been struck. In other words, the hover was attacked with
extraordinary force and knocked into the ravine. Now, let us consider the
runaway drone machina. But then again, perhaps “runaway” is not the best word.
Machina don’t just run amuck on their own, now do they? My investigation has
revealed that the drone machina did not malfunction. Rather, they were
programmed to grow violent. Of course, it may have all been the result of pure
coincidence. Perhaps the guilty party merely fiddled with the drone machina’s
control panel after seeing someone else do the same. I am convinced that is
exactly how it all happened.

The hover pilot appeared.

Rin: I would like to call a witness. This is the pilot of the crashed hover.
Surely you saw the one who pushed the hover off the Newroad?

The hover pilot told Rin something.

Rin: …I see.

The pilot left the scene.

Rin: Just as I thought.

Later…

Rin: It is clear our guilty party wanted to rid the Highroad of its machina.
Lady Yuna, what do you think would happen if the Highroad no longer had any
machina?

Yuna: We’d probably need chocobos instead.

Rin: That is correct. Travellers would use chocobos instead of hovers. It all
boils down to this: The culprit’s objective, obviously, was to bring chocobos
back to the Highroad. I recently witnessed a certain party chasing after a
gull. This was no playful pursuit, but rather a sincere hunt for food by a
starving creature. Hungry, it tried to devour its prey. (looks at the wagon
with the Chocobo Eater) “It,” of course, meaning that fiend which craves
chocobos.

The Chocobo Eater made a silent roar.

Rin: With its main course gone from the Highroad, the creature instinctively
knew: Machina are responsible. Destroy them and the chocobos will return. And
that is when it used its formidable strength to topple the hover. Further, when
it discovered the machina’s control panel, it somehow pressed the right buttons
to cause the machina to go haywire. This fiend is truly an impressive creature.
It has managed to thoroughly disrupt our daily affairs—even if it was just pure
luck. Fiend or not, I admire it greatly for its tenacious pursuit of its goals.
In honor of that tenacity, I will use the resources available to me to return
chocobos to the Highroad.

Everyone looked puzzled. Rin called his two men to take the wagon with the
Chocobo Eater away.

Rin: Farewell, my friend. (to Yuna’s group and the people) The chocobos deserve
to live without fear of being devoured.

The camera views a black screen with the Chocobo Eater falling to its death.
Later, Yuna is riding on a chocobo and while her group and Rin are walking on
the Highroad.

Rin: Well, Lady Yuna, is it not pleasant to be rocked back and forth astride a
chocobo?

Yuna: The chocobos seem happier, with that fiend finally gone.

Rikku: (to Rin) So, what are you gonna do with it?

Rin: Oui yna paddan uvv hud ghufehk. (You are better off not knowing.)

Rikku: Oh…

Paine: So, a happy ending for everyone. Unless you’re a fiend.

Rikku: Anyhoo, let’s get back to the airship.

Yuna riding on a chocobo ran off fast.

Paine: Wow, look at her go.

Yuna: Oohhhh! Somebody stop this thing!!

Yuna then fell off the chocobo and the screen froze.

READ THIS IF PROPHET IS THE CULPRIT

Yuna’s group enters the Travel Agency and then exits to join Rin and the people
outside.

Rin: I am glad you are all here. I would like to talk about the recent string
of incidents occurring on the Highroad.

The camera views the Chocobo Eater locked up in a wagon.

Rin: First, let us discuss the circumstances surrounding the hover crash. It
seems that not everyone wants machina around. Someone has been trying to
destroy the Highroad’s machina, starting with that hover. Lady Yuna, what do
you think would happen to a hover if you pushed it while it was stopped?

Yuna: It wouldn’t budge!

Rin: That is not necessarily true. Unless its brakes are set, a hover can be
moved with very little effort. Hovers are built to be light. Even a child could
move one with only a push. One could easily flag down the pilot and then
quickly push the hover off a cliff once it came to a halt. Which reminds me:
marks found on the Newroad indicate something fell into the ravine below. Now,
let us consider the runaway drone machina. (Rin approaches Paine) But then
again, perhaps “runaway” is not the best word. Machina don’t just run amuck on
their own, now do they? My investigation has revealed that the drone machina
did not malfunction. Rather, they were programmed to grow violent. (walks the
other way) Our culprit clearly wanted people to fear machina. That is why he or
she tampered with their operation. By playing on people’s uneasiness, the
guilty party hoped to purge the Highroad of machina altogether. Hmm… The
machina can only be configured for operation through a control panel behind the
Agency. Our machina-hater probably talked an Al Bhed into explaining how the
control panel works. I would like to call a witness.

The Al Bhed appeared at the scene.

Rin: He says he is the one who leaked the operating instructions. Someone told
him they wanted to learn about machina, and eventually he just gave in.

The Al Bhed left the scene.

Rin: There is still more testimony to be heard.

Two men appeared at the scene.

Rin: These two saw who pushed the hover into the ravine. They were paid to keep
silent. But silence bought with gil is just as easily broken with gil. So tell
me: who pushed the hover into the ravine?

The two men said who did it.

Rin: …I see.

The two men left the scene.

Rin: There is still more testimony to be heard.

The hover pilot appeared at the scene.

Rin: This is the pilot of the crashed hover. Surely you saw the one who pushed
the hover off the Newroad?

The camera zooms in on Prophet.

Rin: …I see.

The hover pilot left the scene.

Rin: Just as I thought.

Later…

Rin: Regarding the person who pushed the hover off the Newroad… …and sabotaged
the machina after tricking the Al Bhed operator into explaining how they work…
There is only one thing left to say.

The camera views Prophet and suddenly pulled out a gun, pointing at Rin.

Prophet: That’s right! Like, it was me! And I would’ve gotten away with it too,
if it hadn’t been for you meddling kids!

Rin: Well, well, well. I see we have new testimony. What I was going to say…
…was that there is no conclusive evidence pointing to you. None at all.

Prophet: Like, no fair!

Rin: Fair? Do you think what you did was fair? You and your partner have been
working underground to bring chocobos back to the Highroad. But everyone else
greatly preferred the modern convenience of machina. In order to scare them
back into using chocobos, you programmed the machina to run amuck. What else
can you call that, but unfair?

Prophet: Shut up!

Prophet is about to shoot Rin.

Yuna: Rin!

Rin dashed towards Prophet and punched his stomach, knocking him out.

Rin: We Al Bhed are accustomed to having guns pointed at us, you see. I must
think of a suitable reward for your efforts. For two people who hate machina it
will be an excruciating, yet fitting, punishment.

Later, Ex-Prophet (formerly known as Prophet) and his assistant are working
hover duties.

Ex-Prophet: The safety of hovers is where it’s at! Hovers’ll get you there in
no time flat!

Rikku: Excruciating is right.

Paine: They must be hating every minute of this. Advertising something they’re
against.

Rin: Lady Yuna, thank you for your help in the investigation. I would like to
reward you.

Yuna: But Rin, you’re the one who figured everything out.

Ex-Prophet: Hovers are happy! Hovers are fun! We’ve got a hover for everyone!

Rikku: Is it just me, or are they enjoying this?

The camera blacks out.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Mushroom Rock Road. Near
the entrance…

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO THE YOUTH LEAGUE

Elma: Lady Yuna! I went to your concert! It was spectacular! I was so moved!

Lucil: Thanks to you, we should be able to resolve our conflicts with New Yevon
peacefully.

Elma: The guys who went to the concert have been going around pushing for a
truce.

Yuna: That’s great!

Lucil: Sadly, there are a great many League members who don’t know what to do
with their energy. It may sound odd, but they’re unhappy about losing the
chance to fight.

Elma: They are so ready to blow up. But Commander Lucil thought of this great
idea. Like, what if everybody blew off some steam with a battle tournament?

Paine: Sounds like fun.

Rikku: Yunie! Maybe we should enter!

Elma: That would be so cool! Yaibal’s handling registration, so if you’re
competing, talk to him.

Lucil and Elma left the scene. Yuna’s group talks to Yaibal.

Yaibal: Will you competing in the tournament?

Yuna: You bet!

Yaibal: Understood! Allow me to lead the way!

Later on in the battle area…

Lucil: High Summoner Yuna has graciously agreed to help test our strength. Step
forward if you are confident in your skill.

Yaibal: Ooh! I wanna—I, too accept the honor of entering the tournament. I will
never forget the day I was allowed to challenge Lady Yuna!

Lucil: Very well. All units, take your positions!

The Youth League members and Elma takes their battle positions.

Lucil: Let the first round commence!

Yaibal: Huh? Me? May the best warrior win!

Yuna’s group fights two Youth League members and Yaibal. After Yuna’s group
wins the fight…

Lucil: A flawless victory. The next challenger awaits.

Yuna’s group approaches and fights three Youth League members. After Yuna’s
group wins the fight…

Lucil: Well done, Lady Yuna.

Yuna’s group approaches and fights three Youth League members. After Yuna’s
group wins the fight…

Lucil: You make combat look effortless.

Yuna’s group approaches and fights three Youth League members. After Yuna’s
group wins the fight…

Lucil: Let us continue.

Yuna’s group approaches and fights four Youth League members. After Yuna’s
group wins the fight…

Lucil: Next!

Elma: Awright, it’s Elma time! Lady Yuna, give me all you’ve got!

Yuna’s group fights two Youth League members and Elma. After Yuna’s group wins
the fight…

Lucil: Magnificent, Lady Yuna. Elma, you, too, fought well. Learn from this
defeat.

Elma: Commander!

Lucil: Who will be next?

No one answers.

Lucil: What, will no one step forward?

Rikku: Well I guess we’re done.

Paine: You’re forgetting someone.

Lucil: Me? Lady Yuna, if I may?

Yuna: I’d be honored.

Lucil: The honor is mine. Please, be gentle.

Yuna’s group fights Lucil. After Yuna’s group wins the fight…

Elma: Commander!

Lucil: (getting up) Thank you, Lady Yuna. It was a good match.

Yaibal: You really are amazing, Lady Yuna.

Elma: You were incredible, too, Commander!

After that…

Lucil: Now is the perfect time for me to tell you something that has been on my
mind. It concerns the Youth League…and Spira’s future.

Later at Youth League headquarters, Lucil prepares her speech.

Lucil: When the Calm arrived two years ago, it echoed deep in the hearts of
Spira’s youth.  With Sin’s defeat, we had lost not  only our mortal enemy, but
also our purpose in life. I, too, felt lost. I did not know what direction to
take, where to channel my energy. It was Meyvn Nooj who guided our lost
generation to a new purpose: to uncover Spira’s true past. This is the same man
who was once called Deathseeker, who made no attempt to hide his despair. What
caused Meyvn Nooj to change? That is not for us to know. Nonetheless, under
Nooj’s leadership, we finally found a way to apply our strength. But look at us
now! The power we hoped to use for good has intoxicated us all. Even Nooj. The
Youth League is in danger of becoming a mindless band of thugs that know only
violence. A power that destroys rather than creates. Without meaning. No better
than Sin. Do you remember why the Youth League seeks the truth behind Spira’s
past? Because Spira’s past is the foundation for its future. Our power exists
so that we may cut a new road, to a new age. An age where children will never
have to lift a sword!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They go back to Mushroom Rock Road and enter
Youth League Headquarters. In one of the balconies...

Lucil: Yaibal, your unit will work with Machine Faction forces.

Yaibal: Understood!

Lucil: Elma, you and your men will patrol the Highroad. Only, be sure to avoid
stirring up New Yevon.

Elma: I’m on it!

Elma and Yaibal left the scene.

Yuna: You seem pretty busy.

Rikku: Oooh! Must be fun to fire off orders like that now that you’re the meyvn
and all.

Lucil: Well, I’m only the acting leader.

Yuna: Acting leader?

Lucil: That’s right. There is only one man fir to be the meyvn. Ah, before I
forget... This is for you, Lady Yuna. I hope that it will help you understand
Nooj a little better.

Yuna’s group received Nooj Sphere.

IF YOU GAVE THE SPHERE TO NEW YEVON

Elma: Lady Yuna! I went to your concert! It was spectacular! I was so moved!

Lucil: Thanks to you, we should be able to resolve our conflicts with New Yevon
peacefully.

Elma: The guys who went to the concert have been going around pushing for a
truce.

Yuna: That’s great!

Lucil: Sadly, there are a great many League members who don’t know what to do
with their energy. It may sound odd, but they’re unhappy about losing the
chance to fight.

Elma: They are so ready to blow up. But Commander Lucil thought of this great
idea. Like, what if everybody blew off some steam with a battle tournament?

Paine: Sounds like fun.

Lucil: We had hoped that you would be able to participate… But if people
affiliated with Yevon were to take part, the tournament might get out of hand.

Yuna: Well, we’re not really allied with Yevon.

Elma: Some of the other troops just don’t understand that.

Rikku: Well, I guess we’re not gonna change their minds. Let’s go, Yunie.

Yuna: Yeah, you’re right.

Lucil: My apologies.

Lucil and Elma left the scene. Yuna’s group moves on. In the next area…

Youth League Member 1: We’re not allowed to assist allies of New Yevon.

Yuna: But there’s something I have to find out.

Youth League Member 2: We don’t intend to hinder you. But some of the other
troops are still edgy. You’d best be careful.

Youth League Member 1: Hey, your song was great.

Yuna’s group moves on. In the area with a lift to Youth League Headquarters…

Yaibal: Lady Yuna, that song of yours really got me thinking. If we had fought
a war with New Yevon, it would have torn Spira in two. And…I might not be
talking to you right now. The fact is, there are still League members who want
war. But I’ll stop them—alone if I have to. I don’t want what happened a
thousand years ago to happen again. No, thank you! Just you watch, Lady Yuna! I
won’t let you down!

Yaibal took the lift up and left the scene.

Rikku: You know, that was pretty studly.

Paine: He’s all talk.

Yuna: (narrating) Y’know. If there were more people like Yaibal around, things
could change… I just know it.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

After that, Yuna’s group enters the Den of Woe. With 10 Crimson Spheres they
found the sealed door opened. Before entering…

Paine: Time to face my past. Come on.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the dead end of the cave. In there…

Rikku: Something’s coming!

Images of Nooj, Baralai and Gippal appeared at the scene.

Paine: Guys!

Images of Nooj, Baralai and Gippal disappeared.

Yuna: You okay?

Paine: What was that?

Rikku: Are they…unsent? No, that can’t be right.

Yuna: Pyreflies. I’ve seen this before. There are places where pyreflies cling
to people’s memories and make them eternal.

Paine; Those were the guys’ memories from back then…preserved by the pyreflies.
Memories. Or two-year-old nightmares.

Suddenly, Shuyin appeared.

Shuyin: Older than that.

Yuna: Shuyin.

Paine: You!

Shuyin: I wanted to rest forever, but the pyreflies make me relive that moment…
Again and again and again.

Shuyin disappeared and reappeared near Rikku’s body and became possessed by
Shuyin.

Rikku: No. Noooo!!

Rikku pulls out her daggers.

Yuna: Rikku!

Paine: Something’s wrong. Stay back!

Suddenly, Paine saw Shuyin and tries to strike him, but she got possessed by
Shuyin.

Rikku: Go away!

Rikku uncontrollably tried to attack Yuna. Yuna dodged her attacks. Paine
readies her sword uncontrollably and is about to attack Yuna.

Yuna: What’s going on?

Shuyin appeared near Yuna.

Shuyin: You will see.

Shuyin made Yuna collapse. We watch a movie of Shuyin playing the organ in
Vegnagun and a weapon was activated. Lenne suddenly appeared at the scene.

Lenne: You must stop! That’s enough.

Soldiers surrounded Shuyin and Lenne. Then the screen switches back to the Den
of Woe cave with images of soldiers and Lenne around Yuna.

Yuna: (aims her guns at Shuyin) Stay back!

Shuyin: This is our story, Lenne.

Yuna: Don’t make me say this again! I’m…not…Lenne!

Yuna aims at Shuyin really fast. Shuyin laughs and then Paine and Rikku appears
near Yuna and are about to kill.

Yuna: Stop!!

Later, the screen turns white and then later reverts to normal. Paine and Rikku
are slowing down a bit.

Yuna: Rikku?

Rikku screams really loud in an uncontrollable way. And begins to fight. Yuna
fights and KO’ed Rikku. Paine is about to get up and start a fight.

Yuna: Snap out of it!

Yuna fights and KO’ed Paine. After that, Paine and Rikku came to their senses.

Rikku: Shuyin is no ordinary unsent!

Paine: Seems that way. When he died a thousand years ago, his feelings became
intertwined with the pyreflies, creating this...apparition.

Yuna: He’s like a dream…or a nightmare.

Rikku: He must have had some serious regrets for his feelings to act on their
own like that.

Paine: This is what destroyed the Squad. Despair strong enough to crush the
minds of those it touches. What just happened to us happened to them, too.
Here. They felt Shuyin’s despair. They went mad, and they died. They killed
each other!

Images of Nooj, Baralai and Gippal aims guns at each other. Then Shuyin
appeared.

Shuyin: But these three lived.

Shuyin laughed.

Shuyin: So…I decided to use them.

Paine: You’ll pay!

Paine swings her sword in anger.

Yuna’s group fights Baralai. After Yuna’s group defeats Baralai, they fight
Gippal. After Yuna’s group defeats Gippal, they fight Nooj. After Yuna’s group
defeats Nooj…

Paine: No one uses my friends.

Rikku: (frightened) Anyways, let’s go outside. I don’t want to be here.

Yuna: Me either.

Later, outside of the Den of Woe…

Paine: It was Shuyin. Two years ago, the guys encountered Shuyin’s memories and
learned of Vegnagun. After we escaped, they said they would uncover the truth
behind it. But then…Nooj shot us. We thought he’d betrayed us. But Nooj wasn’t
Nooj. I understand now: Shuyin was using him the whole time.

Yuna: Let’s go find him, Paine.

Paine: Agreed. We’ve got to free him from Shuyin.

Rikku: Not so fast.

Yuna: What?

Rikku: Remember when the three of them were meeting in the Bevelle Underground?
All these pyreflies came floating out of Nooj’s body in a big cloud. And then
they went whooshing into Baralai’s body! So doesn’t that mean Shuyin’s using
Baralai now?

Paine: Oh! Hey Rikku, not bad.

Rikku giggles.

Paine: I guess it’s Baralai we’re saving, then. By the way, you’ll be helping.

Yuna: Why wouldn’t we!

Rikku: Yeah, you’ve already dragged us all over Spira!

Paine: Thank you.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Djose Temple. In the
temple…

Al Bhed: Fa tet nacaynlr uh machina luhcdnildeuh yht piemd y cibanfaybuh! Hud
ajah oui luimt payd drec drehlk. (We did research on machina construction and
built a superweapon! Not even you could beat this thing.)

Paine: Well, now. That sounds like a dare.

Rikku: He wants us to challenge their “unbeatable machina.”

Al Bhed: Ruf ypuid ed? Nayto du muca? (How about it? Ready to lose?)

Yuna’s group decided to take on the Experiment. Yuna’s group fights Experiment.
After Yuna’s group scrapped Experiment…

Yuna: We really trashed it. (to the Al Bhed) E ys cunno. (I am sorry.)

Al Bhed: Hu funneac. Fryd ec kuut ypuid machina ec drao lyh pa piemd yhaf, oui
caa? (No worries. What is good about machina is they can be built anew, you
see?)

Yuna’s group began getting repair manuals from some people and then they go to
Bikanel Desert and do some more excavations of parts for Experiment. After
doing this, Yuna’s group goes back to Djose Temple and lend the Al Bhed a
repair manual. After doing so, Yuna’s group comes back to see Experiment gone
haywire.

Al Bhed: Ur, dra runnun! Fa kud lulgo yht cuibat ib uin machina duu silr. Huf
id ic uid uv luhdnum. (Oh, the horror! We got cocky and souped up our machina
too much. Now it is out of control.)

Paine: What? You made the thing and now you can’t control it?

Rikku: You guys should be ashamed of yourselves!

Al Bhed: Fa yna taabmo nabahdyhd. (We are deeply repentant.)

Yuna: Only one thing to do.

Yuna’s group decides to take on Experiment.

Al Bhed: Iv oui drehg oui lyh payd id aycemo, oui yna secdygah! (If you think
you can beat it easily, you are mistaken!)

Paine: Whose side are you on?

Yuna’s group fights Experiment. After Yuna’s group scrapped Experiment…

Al Bhed: Hela fung! (Nice work!)

Paine: Fro, dryhg oui. (Why, thank you.)

While Yuna’s group are on their way out…

Rikku: So…who taught you to speak Al Bhed?

Paine: I wonder.

Rikku: Gippal?

Paine: I guess he got me interested.

Rikku: I knew it! That guy’s always been a player!

Paine: It’s not like that. You see, it occurred to me that learning another
language might help me broaden my horizons.

Yuna: Did it work?

Paine: Words weren’t enough. But I did come to a realization: In order to
expand your horizons, you have to open yourself up. Get involved with the
outside world, let it shape and affect you. That’s the only way to change.

Rikku: Um… I don’t get it.

Paine: What I’m trying to say is that running around with you two has helped me
change a lot.

Rikku: What’d we do?

Paine: Well for one thing, you got me to talk. I… Well I finally feel I can
talk about things.

Yuna: That’s good. We thought we were bothering you.

Paine: Oh, you did at first. You never shut up. I was ready to lay down some
serious hurt.

Yuna: What!

Paine: Just at first.

Yuna act like her feelings are hurt.

Rikku: (acting sad) Yunie…

Paine: H-Hey!

Yuna: Rikku, let’s go.

Yuna and Rikku run off.

Paine: Must everything be so dramatic? Hey, wait up!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Moonflow. In there, Yuna’s
group talks to Tobli.

Tobli: Yunapalooza was a super smasheriffic success! But we mustn’t let success
go to our heads, no, no, no! We must succeed again once more! Well, do relax
and enjoy it. The show, I mean.

Yuna’s group watches the show with the shoopuf and the musicians performing.

Tobli: I know, I know! As long as you’re here, why don’t you join them up
onstage? Since you are you, you’re most welcome to! In fact, I want you to! I
insist!

Yuna: Let’s go onstage!

Yuna’s group boards the shoopuf and stands onstage. After doing this, Yuna’s
group gets off the shoopuf.

Tobli: Wow, it’s happening! It’s hot! I’m burning, I’m burning! Thank you so,
so much. Really and truly! I must give you a little something in return.

Rikku: Oh, that’s okay. We really enjoyed doing it.

Yuna & Rikku: Right?

Tobli: Well, well. I’m delighted that you were so entertained!

Yuna: Yup-yup!

Tobli: I’m oh so very ecstatic to hear you say so! This is a dream. Mine, I
mean! Joining everyone’s hearts into one ginormous heart! So that’s why I do
it. My work. Yessiree! Dear, I’ve talked too, too, too, long. Much too long!
Future customers await! Back to work, work, work! Ahem. Work!

While Tobli about to run away…

Rikku: Good luck!

Tobli: Oh, oh. I nearly forgot. I’d like to ask your help again one of these
days. I’d most politely like to formally request your later participation in
advance.

Paine: (shows no interest) Woo hoo.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Guadosalam. In there,
Yuna’s group saw the musician playing their music and the Guados have returned.
Tromell appeared at the scene.

Tromell: There could be no sweeter melody. It is as if this music delivered the
Guado from our unhappy fate. Reviled by all of Spira, most of my people decided
to forsake Guadosalam. Those of us who remained until the very end eventually
tired of our miserable fortune and fled to Macalania. We went to wither away,
together with the woods. That is when we met our musical friends. They, too,
were prepared to fade away with their beloved Macalania Woods. Yet hearing them
perform, I felt a quickening in my blood. I was quite moved. I could not stand
by and let such exquisite music be extinguished. After consulting with the
other Guado, I decided to bring them home to Guadosalam. Not a single Guado
objected. It’s been many years since I’ve seen such solidarity among my people.
Surely this music was the salve that healed our weary hearts.

Yuna’s group talks to Tromell.

Tromell: I am quite aware of the Ronso’s hatred for the Guado. If they were to
attack tomorrow, I would neither run nor hide. If they asked to talk, I would
talk. Were they to take my life, I would give it willingly.

Yuna: Not the Ronso. They don’t want bloodshed.

Rikku: Right, ‘cause their elder’s on top of things!

Tromell: That is auspicious news. The Guado, too, must choose a new leader.

Rikku: What about you?

Tromell: Preposterous! I will never be remembered for anything buy my service
under Lord Jyscal and Lord Seymour.

Donga: Ah, quit yer bellyachin’! Ye’d make a fine leader.

Bayra: You guided us to salvation without any concern for your own safety.
Youshow resolve worthy of a leader.

Tromell: But my strength came from your music!

Paine: You’re wrong. The music only helped you unlock your own inner strength.

Tromell: You really think so? Then I will work these old bones as best I can.
For my beloved Guado.

Pukutak: If you’re ever feeling weary, we’ll play a song to make you cheery!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They now proceed to Thunder Plains. In there…

Al Bhed: Fiends!

Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Shinra.

Shinra: Sphere waves scattered during the concert caused fiends endemic to this
region to rampage.

Paine: So, in other words, your Sphere Screen is to blame.

Shinra: Huh. “Find a sphere and the fiends appear”?

Yuna’s group fights the fiends and defeated them. After that…

Rikku: Um, the lightning isn’t stopping…

Yuna: Let’s look around some more.

In the area with a lightning rod tower to the far left…

Paine: We still haven’t checked that tower.

Rikku: Wanna take a look?

Yuna: Let’s check it out.

Suddenly, Humbaba appeared near the tower.

Paine: Yuna!

Rikku: Bring it, beefsteak!

Yuna’s group fights Humbaba. After Yuna’s group defeats Humbaba, everything is
back to normal.

Al Bhed: Dryhgc y mud! Tet oui lralg dra dufan uid oad? Drana’c y cdnyhka ruma.
(Thanks a lot! Did you check the tower out yet? There’s a strange hole.)

Rikku: He says there’s another hole by the tower.

Paine: Think it’s connected to the others?

Yuna: I don’t think there’s a fayth here.

Rikku: Uh-oh… I’ve got a bad feeling about this.

Al Bhed: E lyh dygam oui du dra ruma. (I can take you to the hole.)

Paine: We going in?

Yuna: Yup, in the hole.

Rikku: Aww…

In the hole of the lightning rod tower, they eventually found Cid sitting on
the ground.

Rikku: Vydran? (Father?)

Cid: Howdy!

Rikku: Howdy? What howdy? What the heck are you doing?

Cid: I found a hole, so I decided to explore it. Call it curiousity. But this
place is swarmin’ with fiends! I, uh…can’t get out. Do Pop a favor and show him
the way out of here.

Cid tried to get up, but got hurt.

Cid: Must’ve pulled something.

Rikku: You are so lame!

Yuna: Who’s gonna carry him?

Cid: Hey, let a man keep his pride!

Paine: Got a better idea?

Cid: Well, how ‘bout this:

Cid opened the door.

Cid Make yer old man proud and scrap that thing!

Yuna’s group fights Machina Panzer. After Yuna’s group defeats Machina Panzer…

Cid: Daahykanc draca tyoc yna uid uv luhdhym! (Teenager these days are out of
control!)

Yuna: Um, you’re welcome aboard our airship.

Yuna’s group gets a transmission from Brother.

Brother: (to Cid) Vydran, ev oui fyhd uh dra creb, ybumukewa du sa. (Father, if
you want on the ship, apologize to me.)

Cid: E’s cunno, cuh. (I’m sorry, son.)

Brother: Dryd fyc duu ayco. Fryd’c ra bmuddehk? (That was too easy. What’s he
plotting?)

Cid: Hmph.

Yuna: (narrating) Cid and Brother have put each other through a lot over the
years. Not even Rikku knows what caused their final falling out. Still, there’s
something nice about the whole thing. If only I could have talked like this
with my father…or you with yours.

Yuna’s group boards the airship with Cid. Yuna goes to the deck and Cid is
about to walk away.

Cid: (to himself) Shameful, how they gussied this baby up! Dern kitschy paint
job. Just who does he take after, anyway?

In the Bridge, Cid tries to speak with Brother.

Cid: Femm oui xied ouin nalgmacc bemudehk? (Will you quit your reckless
piloting?)

Brother: Seht ouin ufh picehacc, Vydran! (Mind your own business, Father!)

Rikku: Tuh’d cdnyeh ourncamv, Vydran. Oui sekrd pnayg cusadrehk. (Don’t strain
yourself, Father. You might break something.)

Brother: Ed ec uin creb. Mad ic ryhtma ed. (It is our ship. Let us handle it.)

Cid: Tu fryd oui fyhd. (Do what you want.)

Yuna’s group proceeds to Macalania Woods. In there, they talk to a Guado.

Guado: The Guado who sought shelter in these woods have returned home to
Gudaosalam. They were accompanied by Macalania’s other races, who had already
begun to fade away with this place. Alas, these woods have grown far too quiet.

The Guado left the scene.

Yuna: The woods are so empty…

Rikku: I guess this place doesn’t have much time left. Kinda sad to think that
all of this will be gone, huh?

Paine: At least…we have our memories.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the spring. In there…

Yuna: Hey, guys? Mind giving me a moment alone?

Paine: Why?

Rikku: Got it. Come on, Paine!

Rikku grabbed Paine’s hand and they both left the scene.

Paine: Uh…sure.

Yuna approaches the spring and tries the whistle calling blow. However nothing
happened.

Yuna: (narrating) I’m not ready to call this just a memory. Not yet.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They go back to Maclania Woods. This time,
they proceed to the Travel Agency. In there, the door from the Travel Agency
can be seen opened.

O’aka: How dare ye drag yer sorry bum back here! Ye cast away the family
business and ran off for the hills! Gone a whole year, ye were! And ye call
yerself O’aka XXIV!

Wantz: But…but you opened the store again with even telin’ me! Why, I only left
back then ‘cause my job was gone!

O’aka: Well…I couldn’t help it. I got an itch for peddling, I did. (walks away
a little) Oh, get in here. Don’t want you catching cold.

Wantz: Brother...

O’aka: I’m right ready to pound some business sense into that hapless head o’
yours!

Wantz: But this doesn’t strike me as the best place for getting customers.

O’aka: Don’t be a dunderhead! Open your eyes, lad! Maybe ye’ve failed to notice
our biggest customer has just graced us with her presence!

Wantz turned around and saw Yuna’s group.

Wantz: Lady Yuna!

O’aka: Now’s your chance to practice, lad! Do it just like I taught ye.

Wantz: All right. W-Welcome to O’aka’s.

O’aka: You buffoon! Put some spine into it, lad! Follow me example: Welcome to
O’aka’s!

Wantz: Welcome to O’aka’s.

O’aka: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!! Welcome to O’aka’s!

Wantz: O-O’aka’s welcome to… D’oh! That’s not right!

O’aka: Read. My. Lips. Welcome to O’aka’s!

Wantz: Welcome to O’aka’s. I read your lips.

O’aka: (singing) Welcome to O’aka’s!

Wantz: (singing) That’s not how it goes!

O’aka: I didn’t ask ye!

Yuna: (narrating) Everything’s returned to normal...I guess.

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Bikanel Desert. In there…

Nhadala: Boy, am I glad you’re here!

Rikku: Mad sa kiacc. (Let me guess.)

Nhadala: We’ve got a prickly situation. Fiends are attacking the Cactuar Nation!

Yuna: We’ll take care of it! Benzo, let’s go!

Paine: I was wrong. She doesn’t get dragged into trouble.

Rikku: She jumps in headfirst.

The screen switches to an area with fiends coming out of the quicksand.

Paine: What’s happening?

A big fiend appeared from the ground. In Cactuar Nation…

Paine; These are no garden-variety fiends.

Benzo: Let’s ask Marnela. She knows more than I do.

Yuna: Sure. Okay. Marnela, do you know what’s going on?

Marnela begins to talk.

Benzo: “An ancient and terrifying fiend that long slept beneath the earth has
awoken.” “That fiend is now headed here.” “We must lose no time in raising the
Great Haboob.” “Only the Ten Gatekeepers are capable of raising this magical
barrier.” “You must gather them here before the last of my power wanes.” That’s
the gist of it.

Paine: Yuna!

Fiends suddenly appeared at the scene.

Benzo: Get back!

Marnela prepares to fire a beam and Yuna’s group steps back. Marnela fired
beams at the fiends.

Paine: Impossible!

Rikku: Wow. Did she get ‘em?

Benzo: No. She says she’s struggling just to buy us time.

Marnela continues to fire laser beams at the fiends.

Benzo: Please! Find the Gatekeepers before Marnela’s strength gives out!

Yuna’s group begins finding the Ten Cactuar Gatekeepers throughout Spira. After
a long period of searching, Yuna’s group found nine of them and goes back to
Bikanel Desert then into Cactuar Nation, Yuna’s group talks to Marnela.

Benzo: “The last Gatekeeper should be somewhere nearby. Please, you must locate
him.”

Rikku: Yunie, let’s go find him!

Yuna: We’ll look for him.

Nine Cactuar Gatekeepers appeared at the scene.

Benzo: Marnela says the other Gatekeepers will help. “Now, go! Hurry!”

Near the sealed Cactuar Hollow…

Paine: Nice place.

Benzo: It says this is where the rogue Cactuars hang out. I guess the
Gatekeeper fell in with the wrong crowd. They’re all holed up somewhere inside.

Yuna: Here we go again.

Paine: Let’s teach them some social skills. Come on.

The Cactuar Gatekeepers unsealed Cactuar Hollow. Yuna’s group proceeds inside
Cactuar Hollow. In the next area, the rogue Cactuars shot needles at the dead
Sallet. The Sallet resurrected and became Heavy Sallet. Yuna’s group fights and
defeats Heavy Sallet. After that, Yuna’s group moves on and found the last
Cactuar Gatekeeper.

Rikku: There he is!

The rogue Cactuar appeared. Yuna plays the mini-game shoot-out with the last
Cactuar Gatekeeper. After that...

Yuna: No more running away from home!

The rogue Cactuars gathered up and formed a Jumbo Cactuar. Yuna’s group fights
Jumbo Cactuar. After Yuna’s group defeats Jumbo Cactuar, Yuna’s group takes the
last Cactuar Gatekeeper outside of Cactuar Hollow. The ten Cactuar Gatekeeper
breaks the seal and unleashes a huge whirlwind scaring away the fiends. After
that…

Benzo: The Cactuar Nation will be safe from fiends now. But Marnela, she…

Yuna: Marnela?

Yuna’s group looks at the remains of Marnela.

Benzo: She used all her power to stop them.

Yuna: No…

Suddenly, Picket appeared at the scene.

Picket: Fa kud y fiend er dra lysb! Tyhkan! Tyhkan! (We got a fiend in the
camp! Danger! Danger!)

Rikku: Now a fiend’s attacking the camp!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius to gear up. After that, they proceed back to
Bikanel Desert again. This time, in the camp. In there, there were some Al
Bheds wounded.

Yuna: Nhadala!

Nhadala: Puo, ys E kmyt oui’na rana! Fa’na hu sydlr vun drec fiend! (Boy, am I
glad you’re here! We’re no match for this fiend!)

Benzo: She says they’re no match.

A rumbling can be heard.

Paine: We’ve got company.

The big fiend appeared from the sands.

Nhadala: Dryd’c ed! (That’s it!)

Yuna: Everyone, be careful!

Yuna’s group fights Angra Mainyu. After Yuna’s group defeats Angra Mainyu…

Nhadala: You’re a real lifesaver! I guess you can always count on the Gullwings.

Yuna: Thanks.

Paine: But… What a disaster.

Nhadala: I guess. It’s all relative. This is nothing compared to what happened
to Home. Besides… What’s done is done.

The camera views the Al Bhed celebrating the triumphant defeat of Angra Mainyu.

Paine: You’re pretty tough.

Rikku: Hm? (sniffing) I smell something good!

Yuna: Hey, you’re right!

An Al Bhed driving a scooter passes by.

Al Bhed: Lusa yht kad ouin jeldiymc! (Come and get your victuals!)

Paine: Food?

Nhadala: Yeah! We whipped it up during the battle. As long as we’re still
kicking, we’re gonna get hungry. Hunger’s proof we’re alive. We’ve got heaps of
food. I don’t suppose you’re interested?

Yuna: Gullwings, at your service!

Yuna’s group does their Gullwings pose. After that, Yuna’s group boards the
Celsius. They go back to Bikanel Desert then into Cactuar Nation. In there,
Yuna’s group talks to Benzo.

Yuna: So…I guess Marnela is gone.

Benzo: No. Look! She’s right here.

Marnela is now a little cactus.

Benzo: She may be small now, but give her some time, and she’ll grow. Then
we’ll have a new Marnela!

Rikku: Marnela’s gone, but she’ll grow bigger and become a new Marnela… Huh?

Benzo: Oh, you didn’t know? Marnela is the Cactuar word for “grandma.”

Paine: If you say so.

Yuna: Well then, we look forward to meeting her again someday.

Benzo: Right!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They proceed to Bevelle. In there, Yuna’s
group saw Maroda.

Maroda: Hey.

Yuna: Hi, Maroda. Aren’t you a member of the Youth League? What are you doing
in front of New Yevon’s headquarters?

Maroda: I’ve been asking myself the same question. Look.

The people of Bevelle gathered around Isaaru.

Maroda: My brother heard that Bevelle was a mess and came all the way from
Zanarkand. Hey, he can do what he wants, but what I wanna know is: How did I
get dragged into this?

Yuna: You’re protecting Bevelle together.

Maroda: Yeah, I guess that’s about right. Somebody’s gotta watch his back.

Pacce and the Kinderguardians appeared at the scene.

Pacce: Hey Maroda, who you talkin’ about?

Maroda: We’re talking about how brothers have to stick together.

Pacce: Oh, okay! See you later, Lady Yuna! (to Taro and Hana) Kinderguardians,
move out!

The Kinderguardians: Yes, sir!

Rikku: They’re multiplying!

Maroda: Yeah! They’re turning into a regular Kindercorps.

Yuna: Well, at least they’re having fun.

Maroda: Maybe fun is all this world really needs.

Maroda laughs a little.

Rikku: Isaaru’s changed, too, huh?

Maroda: Him? He’ll never change. (sighs) He goes around playing superhero and
leaves us with all the headaches.

Rikku: Hey, I know someone like that.

Paine: Oh, someone who goes around playing superhero, is it?

Yuna: You mean Brother!

Paine: Wrong.

Yuna: Buddy?

Rikku: Nope.

Paine: Well, uh, Rikku, why don’t we get going?

Rikku: Yup, sounds good.

Before Rikku and Paine could run away…

Yuna: Come on. Tell me who!

Yuna’s group proceeds to Calm Lands. In there, Yuna’s group watches a rival
between Open Air and Argent publicity.

Tobli: Wait, wait!

After that, the hover with Tobli appeared at the scene.

Tobli: Far be it from me to say or speak, but you mustn’t, mustn’t argue like
this! It really won’t do, not at all! Yup-yup! I can taste it in the air!
Confrontation, I mean. Guests simply will not come with all this confronting!
Please, please, please, allow me to take care of business!

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. They go back to Calm Lands then into the
Chocobo Ranch, Yuna’s group eventually captured some chocobos and dispatched
them to Calm Lands. After doing this enough times, Yuna’s group goes back to
the Chocobo Ranch. Inside…

Clasko: Lady Yuna, what should I do?

Yuna: What’s wrong?

Clasko: This way, hurry!

In the area with a hole…

Clasko: The chocobos found it. They seem to have scented one of their own kind!

Paine: Well?

Yuna: Well what?

Paine: “I bet there’s an amazing chocobo inside.” “But wimpy little me can’t go
find it myself.” Is that it?

Clasko: Yes! That’s exactly right!

Paine: See?

Yuna’s group jumps down to the hole. Under there, Yuna’s group opened one of
the doors and they encountered Anything Eater. Yuna’s group fights and defeats
Anything Eater. After that, they opened all the door and an amazing chocobo was
found.

Yuna: So this is the amazing chocobo?

Paine: Looks pretty choco-boring.

Rikku: Well, it’s choco-bolting!

The amazing chocobo ran forward.

Clasko: Don’t go!

The amazing chocobo stopped running.

Clasko: Good girl! That’s right. You don’t have to be afraid as long as I’m
here. Come home and live with me. I’ll take you to your friends.

Rikku: Aw, they’re choco-bonding.

Paine: Clasko would be pretty amazing, if he only learned to do things himself.

Yuna: (narrating) They make a cute couple, don’t you think?

Yuna’s group boards the Celsius. Yuna’s group proceeds to Mt. Gagazet. In there…

Garik: Elder, what path should Ronso walk? Garik not know!

Kimahri: Garik must be patient.

Garik: Garik feel hate, try to stop. But without path, hate is strong. Garik
lost to hate. Garik rather unleash anger than go mad searching for path Garik
cannot find!

Kimahri: Kimahri tell Garik many times. Force not solve problems.

Garik: Then what good is  power Ronso receive from mountain? Once Ronso train
to defend Yevon sacred ground. But now summoners not come! Ronso power go to
waste! Kimahri true elder? Then Kimahri answer Garik!

Kimahri said nothing.

Garik: Kimahri no elder.

Garik left the scene. Yuna’s group talks to Kimahri.

Kimahri: Yuna see Kimahri’s shame.

Yuna: Don’t be ashamed!

Rikku: Yeah! Yunie’s right! Forget about that ogre.

Kimahri: Kimahri is elder. Kimahri must lead way to Ronso future.

Female Ronso: Elder! Good news. Ronso children return to mountain.

Kimahri looks satisfied as he approaches Lian and Ayde.

Lian: We caused Elder Kimahri much worry. But we could not find a way to
restore Elder’s horn.

Ayde: We are sorry.

Kimahri: No apologies. Lost Lian and Ayde trouble Kimahri more than lost horn.

Lian: Elder…

Kimahri: Lian and Ayde enjoy seeing vast Spira?

Ayde: Yes, Elder. Ayde did not want to come home.

Lian: Lian felt that way, too. We saw today’s Spira with our own eyes, and we
fought deeply. We think about path to future Spira.

Ayde: We decided. We will journey again and meet many people.

Kimahri: Long journey teach Lian and Ayde more than icy mountain can.

Lian and Ayde left the scene.

Yuna: Kimahri?

Kimahri: Kimahri decide.

Kimahri walks to the summit. Yuna’s group follows Kimahri. In the summit…

Garik: Garik not listen unless Kimahri speak of Ronso future! Kimahri unable to
give answer he not have! Kimahri not elder!

With Kimahri blocking Garik’s way and not saying anything, Garik punched
Kimahri and Garik laughed. Kimahri is getting angry.

Paine: Can I hurt him?

Yuna gets up and is about to approach Garik and Kimahri.

Rikku: Ooh. Now she’s mad.

Kimahri: So be it. Kimahri teach Garik how to use force!

Kimahri uppercuts Garik, knocking him down.

Rikku: Hiyaaa!

Garik: Kimahri use force? Force not solve problems! Kimahri still have no
answer!

Kimahri: Silence! Garik not think for himself! Beg Kimahri for answer!

Yuna looks at Kimahri and Garik in a shocking way.

Kimahri: Garik not even pup!

Garik: What?

Kimahri: Lian and Ayde make long journey. Find own path.

Garik: So, Garik must settle Garik problems?

Kimahri: Wrong. Garik not alone. Let us think together. Kimahri is elder.

Garik: Elder right.

Kimahri helps Garik get up.

Garik: One Ronso problem is problem for all. All Ronso problem is problem for
one.

Kimahri: One day Ronso path will be clear. This Kimahri believe.

Later at Fayth Scar, the camera views the Kimahri statue.

Garik: Maybe it needs horn?

Kimahri nods “no”.

Kimahri: Kimahri think looking at road ahead better than looking back on things
lost. Kimahri look at future.

Garik: Garik want to see too.

Kimahri: Ronso must look together, without fear!

Ronso approaches the other Ronsos.

Garik: Honor to Ronso! Honor to mountain! Long live Elder Kimahri!

Lian & Ayde: Long live Kimahri!

The Ronsos shouted out “Long live Kimahri!” repeatedly.

Yuna: better than looking back on things lost, he said.

Paine: Ouch.

Yuna: Let’s go.

Paine: What about her?

Yuna almost forgot about Rikku who is saying the same thing as the Ronsos.

Rikku, Lian & Ayde: Long live Kimahri! Long live Kimahri!

After that, Yuna’s group boards the Celsius.

READ THIS IF YOU GOT EPISODE COMPLETE IN ALL AREAS OF SPIRA

Buddy: A special bonus for the Gullwings!

Brother: They look great on you!

Shinra: I…um, want one, too.

Barkeep: Shplendid work.

Yuna: Gosh, thanks.

Yuna’s group are wearing the Mascot outfit.

Paine: What the hell is this?

Rikku: Hey, why not, right?

Yuna’s group got the Mascot dressphere.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

On board, Yuna talks to Brother.

Brother: Made up your mind? Where will you jump in?

Yuna: Besaid Temple.

Brother: You’re really going in?

Yuna: Yup.

Brother: The time for invasion has come! Sphere hunter team Gullwi... Hm? Your
friendly neigh... Heh? What are we called now?

Shinra: Does it really matter?

Brother: Good point... Surging Flapping Neighboring Gullwings, attack!!

Buddy: Whoa, such passion!

Rikku: Seriously!

Paine: I’m so moved.

Yuna: At any rate, let’s go!

Shinra: The Gullwings’ last mission. Let’s do it.

Buddy: Hey, hey, hey, none of this “last mission” business, you hear?

Shinra: For me...it probably will be.

Shinra approaches Yuna.

Shinra: Be careful.

Shinra gave Yuna a hug.

Yuna: I’ll be fine. We’re just going to talk, after all.

Brother: Save the huggy-huggies for your triumphant return! Yes!

Brother giggles a little.

Buddy: Um, hey, look what the boys thought up!

Brother: That’s right!

Brother, Buddy & Shinra: Go, go, go, Gullwings!

Brother, Buddy, and Shinra do their good luck moves.

Yuna: It’s time, Gullwings.

Yuna, Rikku and Paine: Let’s rock!

Yuna’s group does their moves as well. Later, Yuna’s group proceeds to Besaid
Island temple and jumps down the hole. In the Farplane road, Yuna’s group moves
forward. They encounter Shiva. Yuna’s group fights and defeats Shiva. After
that, they move on. They encounter The Magus Sisters. Yuna’s group fights and
defeats The Magus Sisters. After that, they move on. They encounter Anima.
Yuna’s group fights and defeats Anima. After that, Fayth appeared.

Fayth: Yuna. I’m sorry. We weren’t strong enough to stop him. We wanted to at
least warn someone...but instead, we were dragged into the darkness. We’re no
better than fiends.

Yuna: It’s all right.

Fayth: Forgive us.

Yuna walks forward a little.

Yuna: Please. Tell me. What is he?

Fayth: Shuyin? Just a shadow. It may look like him, but the real Shuyin died
long ago. Even after a thousand years, his hate and misery linger on. His
feelings grew so strong, they began to act on their own... Eventually, they
became a shadow—a shade that wants only to vanish, but cannot.

Yuna: Just a shadow... I can handle a shadow.

Fayth: Are you sure?

Yuna: Yes. Leave it to me.

Fayth disappeared at the scene.

Yuna: I’ll banish shadow with light.

Rikku: Light?

Paine: Lenne’s feelings.

Yuna: That’s right. Call it...love.

Later, Yuna’s group appeared at the Farplane abyss. In there, they saw Leblanc,
Logos and Ormi.

Rikku: Hey!

Leblanc: Hmph. You certainly took your sweet time.

Yuna: Why are you here?

Logos: Because the boss never goes against Lord Nooj’s wishes.

Paine: You found him?

Ormi: As we was headin’ in, we found a sphere addressed to the boss.

Leblanc: He said, “Don’t follow me. Turn back now and wait for my return.

Paine: Actually doing what you’re told? How novel.

Leblanc: What can I say? One look at Noojie-Woojie’s dashing visage on that
sphere and I was—oh!—charmed. How can I say no to such a kyootzie-wootzie face?
What if he—

Rikku: Don’t worry. If he knows you’re waiting, he has a reason to come home.

Leblanc: And wait I shall.

Rikku: We’ll tell him that you’re waiting like a good girl.

Leblanc: You do that, love. And don’t forget to stress “good girl.”

Yuna’s group proceeds to the dark portal to the Heart of the Farplane. Yuna’s
group plays the keyboard to deactivate the barriers. After doing so, they found
Gippal kneeling.

Rikku: Gippal!

Gippal: I got...careless.

Paine: Are you all right?

Gippal: I could use...a nap.

Yuna: Where’s Nooj?

Gippal: He went ahead.

Rikku: Guess she couldn’t stay away.

Leblanc, Logos and Ormi appeared.

Leblanc: I never said where I would wait!

Yuna: Well, then please, take care of Gippal.

Leblanc: (frustrated) You dare give me an order?

Paine: Look, we’ll tell Nooj you’re waiting like a good girl and doing your
part for the team.

Leblanc thinks for a moment.

Leblanc: All right, I’m in.

Gippal: Hey, Dr. P. A gift from Nooj.

Gippal gave Paine a sphere.

Gippal: It’s from two years ago. Said it was inside the sphere camera.

Paine: I’ll watch it later.

Yuna: Hey. You should watch it now. Think about it. You know you won’t be able
to fight your best as long as it’s on your mind.

Paine: You’re right.

Paine views the sphere. The camera shows Nooj, Baralai, Gippal, and Paine on
the boat.

Gippal: Whaddaya got in mind for fun? Any ideas, Dr. P?

Paine: Me? A ship that glides through the air. That thing you mentioned before.
If it’s for real, I wanna fly it.

Baralai: You get to be pilot, then. And maybe I’ll try my hand at navigation.

Gippal: Then I’ll be engineer!

Baralai: Nooj?

Paine: Captain.

Baralai: Ah, that’s perfect.

Nooj: You’d let an amateur be captain?

Gippal: Chill out, Noojster. All you gotta do is shut up and look important and
you’ll fit the part.

Paine: Like a glove.

Nooj: I’ll work you like dogs.

Everyone started laughing and the sphere ended viewing.

Paine: What happened to that Paine, I wonder.

Yuna: She’s inside you, sleeping.

Rikku: Well, wakey, wakey! Time to set sail!

Yuna: Your captain and your navigator are waiting!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the next area with the musical playing platforms.
After Yuna’s group successfully managed to solve the puzzle, they deactivate
the barrier and move on ahead. In the area near Vegnagun...

Rikku: I got a hunch that once we go on ahead, there’s no turning back.

Paine: A hunch?

Rikku: Yeah.

Yuna: That’s it?

Paine: A hunch it is, then.

Yuna’s group approaches closer to Vegnagun’s lair.

Yuna: It’s moving!

Yuna’s group arrived at the area with Nooj.

Nooj: Both Baralai and Vegnagun belong to him now.

Yuna: Shuyin...

Baralai with a ghost image of Shuyin is playing the organ keyboard.

Nooj: I have a plan. Can’t call it a smart one, though.

Paine: What’s that?

Nooj: He acts through another’s body. Stop the body and you stop him. I’ll
shoot Baralai.

Rikku: No!

Nooj: His body will be useless, but if we’re lucky, he won’t die. Shuyin will
abandon Baralai. And then he’ll come back for me.

Paine: What then?

Nooj: I will die. My body has already been rigged. I’m taking Shuyin with me.

Yuna: Nooj...

Paine: But...you’re our captain.

Nooj: Exactly.

Later, Yuna talks to Nooj.

Yuna: I don’t like your plan. It sucks.

Nooj, Paine, and Rikku look at Yuna.

Yuna: Your plan is awful. Think about it. It’s no different than what we did
two years ago. We destroyed our own allies. We destroyed the aeons who had
fought together with us, at our sides. We didn’t have a choice then. We
believed that was the only way we could save Spira. Do you know what it felt
like to watch them die? Right before my eyes? It was the only thing we could
do. It was the only choice we had. I gave in, I accepted, I believed. I allowed
it to be true. I thought I’d be able to go through with it without ever
doubting myself. But I... It hurts so much.

Voice of Fayth: Forgive us.

Yuna: Everyone was so happy. “Great job, Yuna. You did it. You saved us all.”
There were too many smiles to count. And I know that I was smiling, too. But
now...when I look back... The people who should be here aren’t. The ones who
should be smiling with me aren’t here.

Voice of Braska: We had no choice.

There was a moment of pause.

Yuna: “We had no choice.” Always “we had no choice.” Those are our magic words.
We repeat them to ourselves again and again. But you know... The magic never
worked! The only thing we’re left with is regret.

Voice of Braska: Yuna...I’m sorry.

Yuna: No. I don’t want this anymore.

There was another moment of pause and Yuna starts to smile a little.

Yuna: I don’t want friends to die...or fade away. I don’t want battles where we
have to lose in order to win. Nooj, I know that what you say is what you mean
to do. Give me your resolve. Believe in Yuna.

Later...

Nooj: Hmm. So you have a plan.

Paine: Light?

Yuna: That’s Plan B. But before that... Hey, Rikku. No matter how monstrous it
looks, Vegnagun is still just a machina. So we can take it apart, right?

Rikku: Uh, yeah...uh, maybe?

Gippal: You never used to be the think-before-you-act type. What gives?

Gippal, Leblanc, Logos and Ormi appeared at the scene.

Nooj: Leblanc!

Leblanc: And I never was the wait-like-a-good-girl type. Isn’t that right,
Noojie?

Nooj looks confused.

Gippal: Vegnagun can be destroyed. Abso-posi-you better believe it. Wanna know
why?

Rikku: ‘Cause people built it!

Yuna: Right! Everyone! It looks like we can stop that thing after all.

Suddenly, Vegnagun is reacting.

Ormi: Bwahahah! Now it’s pissed!

Logos: Witless little widget, isn’t it?

Nooj: What about Shuyin?

Yuna: Plan B!

Nooj: Oh?

Yuna: Love.

Gippal: Nuu puo. (Hoo boy.)

Nooj: The ultimate illusion.

Yuna: It’ll work! I’ve come this far to bring Lenne’s feelings to Shuyin. I’m
not stopping now.

Leblanc: The power of love conquers all! So romantic! Count me in.

Suddenly, Vegnagun is starting to react even more.

Paine: Look!

Vegnagun awoke and is now active. Yuna’s group and all of their allies
including Nooj and Leblanc fled to the main road.

Voice of Jecht: It’s just bluffing.

Voice of Auron: This relic’s getting rusty.

Voice of Braska: Yuna, you have your friends.

Yuna thought of a plan and strategy.

Yuna: If we all attack at once, we can do this! We need to split up!

Leblanc: Leave the legs to us!

Gippal: We’ve got the torso!

Rikku: Guess that leaves the tail!

Everyone agrees.

Yuna: Okay, let’s go!

Leblanc, Logos and Ormi move on to their target. Before Nooj moves on...

Nooj: (to Paine) See you later.

Nooj and Gippal moves on to their target.

Yuna’s group moves on to their target. Yuna’s group fights Vegnagun’s tail.
After Yuna’s group defeats Vegnagun’s tail...

Paine: What’s next?

Rikku: Yunie, they’re in trouble!

In the area with Vegnagun’s leg, Leblanc, Ormi and Logos are having a hard time
with the battle.

Ormi: Boss! Let’s get the heck outta here!

Leblanc: You want to get the heel?

Logos: You can “heel” us when we get home!

In the area with Yuna’s group...

Yuna: Come on!

Yuna’s group proceeds to the area with Vegnagun’s leg. In there...

Leblanc: What are you doing here?

There was a short pause.

Leblanc: I’ll let you have this one. I’m going to cheer Noojie on.

Yuna: Got it!

Yuna’s group fights Vegnagun’s leg. After Yuna’s group defeats Vegnagun’s leg...

Rikku: Look!

There are chaotic battles near Vegnagun’s torso.

Paine: I’m going.

Yuna’s group proceeds to the area with Vegnagun’s torso. On their way, they saw
Ormi and Logos wounded.

Ormi: Please...

Logos: Help the boss...

Yuna: The Gullwings are on it!

In the area with Vegnagun’s torso, Nooj, Gippal, and Leblanc, Gippal fires his
gun at Vegnagun but then Vegnagun counterattacks with lasers on Nooj, Leblanc,
and Gippal and they are wounded.

Gippal: This thing just keeps on ticking.

Paine: We’ll finish it.

Nooj: Do it.

Yuna’s group fights Vegnagun’s torso. After Yuna’s group defeats Vegnagun’s
torso, Vegnagun is slowing down and lands on its head near the platform with
Yuna’s group.

Paine: What now?

Rikku: Uh...

Everyone gathered together.

Rikku: Maybe we’re finished?

The camera shows Baralai.

Baralai: Finished indeed.

Baralai turns around with the ghost image of Shuyin to the organ keyboard.

Nooj: Baralai!

Baralai: (Shuyin’s voice speaking at the same time) All of Spira is finished!

Vegnagun becomes active again.

Rikku: He’s got a Plan B, too!

Voice of Auron: He’s panicking. Yuna. End it now.

Yuna: This is it, everybody! Stay focused!

Vegnagun opens up a cannon from its torso. Yuna’s group arrived at Vegnagun’s
head. Yuna’s group fights Vegnagun’s head. After Yuna’s group defeat Vegnagun’s
head, Vegnagun is disabled. Then Baralai and Shuyin got off Vegnagun’s organ
area. Suddenly, Yuna changes to her songstress outfit. Shuyin looks at Yuna but
is seeing images of Lenne.

Yuna: Shuyin.

Shuyin: Lenne?

Yuna: There’s something I must tell you. Words left unspoken for a thousand
years.

There was a moment of pause.

Yuna: I love you. And I’m grateful...grateful that you stayed with me until the
end.

Shuyin: But, I couldn’t save you!

Yuna: It doesn’t matter. Please don’t go on grieving alone. (speaking with
Lenne’s voice at the same time) Rest.

Shuyin got out of Baralai’s body and Baralai came to his senses. Shuyin
approaches closer who he thinks is Lenne.

Shuyin: We can finally fade...together?

Suddenly, Shuyin saw Yuna instead of Lenne.

Shuyin: No.

Yuna: Wait!

Shuyin: (angry) You are not Lenne!

Yuna’s group’s final fight is against Shuyin. After Yuna’s group defeats
Shuyin...

Yuna: Shuyin...

Shuyin: Don’t try to tell me you understand.

Suddenly, Lenne came out of Yuna’s body.

Shuyin: Lenne?

Lenne holds Shuyin’s hand.

Shuyin: Lenne.

Lenne: Hi there.

Shuyin: A thousand years, and this moment is all we get?

Lenne: This moment’s enough. I don’t need anything else. Just knowing how you
feel is enough. Shuyin, let’s end this. Let’s go home.

Shuyin: Can we?

Lenne placed both hands on Shuyin’s shoulders.

Lenne: That was all a thousand years ago. We’ve come too far to look back now.
Rest, Shuyin. Rest with me.

Shuyin and Lenne hug each other.

Lenne: Let’s go. I have a new song for you.

Lenne looks at Yuna.

Lenne: Thank you.

Lenne and Shuyin disappeared in happiness. Yuna’s group and their allies leave
the Farplane.

END OF CHAPTER 5

READ THIS IF YOU CHOSE TO HEAR A WHISTLE ONCE

In the Farplane abyss, Yuna stopped for a bit and someone who is actually Tidus
in the ghostly image appeared and hugs Yuna.

Yuna: It’s you. You were with me the whole time. I kept thinking you might be,
kept hoping.

There was a moment of pause.

Yuna: But you know, I’m not worried anymore. You will always have a
place...here in my heart. We’ll always be connected.

The ghostly image of Tidus disappears.

Yuna: I love you.

After that, Yuna leaves the Farplane.

READ THIS IF YOU CHOSE TO HEAR THE WHISTLE TWICE

In the Farplane Abyss, Fayth appeared.

Fayth: Thanks.

Yuna: You’re very welcome.

Fayth: You heard it, didn’t you? You want to see him?

Yuna: Him?

Fayth: Yes. You want to walk together again?

Yuna: Yes!

Fayth: I can’t promise anything, but we’ll do what we can.

CONTINUE WITH THE SCRIPT

After that, Yuna leaves the Farplane. Then, the screen shows lights of souls
appearing on the dark screen. Later, we watch the final movie of Luca. The
crowd is about to hear Nooj, Gippal and Baralai’s giving out the speech.

Nooj: Once my friends and I dreamed of flying. We would sail a ship, with me as
its captain. In time, I became that captain. I found a new ship with new
friends. My ship was the Youth League.

The crowds cheered.

Baralai: Others chose a different captain. Their boat was New Yevon.

The crowds gave the applause to Nooj, Baralai, and Gippal.

Gippal: You know, I realize I’m like a lot of you people. We want a captain.
And we want a ship to ride, but more important than that... Really, we all want
to ride together.

The crowds cheer and gave the applause.

Baralai: There are some things you can’t do alone. But they become easy with
friends beside you.

Nooj: This was the lesson that we learned when we launched those ships.

Baralai: It was power... And we misused that power. We turned our friends and
followers against each other.

Nooj: Forgive us.

The crowd sound dissatisfied.

Baralai: Somehow we forgot. There’s a much larger ship out there. One we’ve
been riding ever since we were born. That ship is Spira.

The crowds cheered and gave the applause.

Nooj: No one knows just where our voyage will lead us. But we do know one
thing: One way or another, we will get by. We’ll go on living. The Calm will
continue.

The crowds cheered and gave the applause.

Gippal: Just one more thing: We all owe thanks to a very special lady.

The crowds cheered and gave the applause.

Gippal: Yeah, you all know who I’m talking about. We really hoped that she
could be here today.

The screen shows the past where Nooj, Gippal and Baralai who are with Yuna’s
group.

Yuna: It’s time for me to go home!

Yuna’s group gave each other a high five. The view of the past ended.

Gippal: She left a message. She said she’s going home. So farewell, but not
goodbye.

The Celsius lifts up in the air and is about to take off. Brother speaks
through the Celsius macrophone.

Brother: See you next time, kiddies! Yeehaw!

The Celsius takes off. On the Deck, Yuna’s group is kneeling on the Deck.

Rikku: Did we really have to leave like this? Just think of the party we’re
missing!

Paine: Hmph. I think we party enough, don’t you?

Rikku giggles.

Yuna: Brother, higher!

Brother: Roger!

The Celsius moves upward, towards the sky.

Yuna: Brother, faster!

Brother: Rogerrr!

Yuna: I can’t hear you!

Brother: Rogerrrrr!!

The Celsius flies away.

Yuna: (narrating) So much has happened. And I’m sure it’s only the beginning.
Through the smiles and tears, through the anger... ...and the laughter that
follows... I know that I’ll keep changing. This is my story. It’ll be a good
one.

The camera shows the Celsius flying away faster and the screen blacks out.

Yuna: (narrating) It all began when I saw this sphere of you.

The credits roll and this ends our story and the game.

THE END

IF YOU CHOSE TO TALK TO THE FAYTH IN THE FARPLANE ABYSS, READ THIS ONE

The credits roll. After that, we watch the truly final movie of Tidus in the
water rising up to the surface in Besaid Island. Tidus whistles and however
nothing happened except that the Celsius flies over Tidus and lands on the
water. Yuna rushes out of the Celsius and desperately hugs Tidus. While giving
each other a hug...

Yuna: Are you real?

Tidus: I think so.

There was a moment of pause.

Tidus: Do I pass?

Yuna nods “yes”.

Yuna: You’re back.

Tidus: I am back. I’m home.

Tidus hugs Yuna around her neck.

Yuna: Welcome home.

Yuna hugs Tidus around his back.

Yuna: Yes, home.

The camera shows Rikku and Paine giggling and then...

Wakka: Hey! Get a room, you two!

Yuna’s group and Tidus saw the people of Besaid Island standing near the beach.

Wakka: Whassup?

Tidus: Who asked you to watch, Wakka?

Lulu smiles a little while holding her baby son.

Rikku: Hiya!

Yuna and Tidus ran forward towards the beach.

Tidus: You know, you’ve changed.

Yuna: Well, you missed a few things.

Tidus: I wanna hear everything!

Yuna: (narrating) Well... It all began when I saw this sphere of you.

This ends our story and the game.

THE END

IF YOU ACHIEVED 100% COMPLETION OF THE GAME, READ THIS DIALOGUE AFTER THE
REUNION OF TIDUS AND YUNA

Later in the dawn at Zanarkand Ruins, Tidus stands and watches the sunset.

Tidus: I got a theory. I think the fayth gathered up my thoughts and put ‘em
together to bring me back. Maybe. Something like that.

The camera views Yuna watching the sunset and then Tidus looking at his own
hands.

Tidus: Or maybe...I’m still a dream.

Yuna: Wait! So you’ll disappear?

There was a short pause.

Tidus: Cherish me, Yuna. And I’ll cherish you. All right? We gotta stay
together. That’s what we have to do.

Yuna approaches Tidus’ back and placed her arms around his back.

Yuna: Is that what the fayth told you?

Tidus: Nah. But I like it.

Tidus and Yuna laughs and then Yuna push Tidus into the water.

Tidus: That’s not cherishing!

Yuna: You didn’t disappear.

Tidus and Yuna smiles. The camera shows Yuna standing on a hill watching the
sunset. This ends our story and the game.

THE END
